 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

General 

The Company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States. Pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries. Pioneer's common stock is listed and traded on the NYSE under the ticker symbol "PXD." 

The Company is a Delaware corporation formed in 1997. The Company's executive offices are located at 5205 N. O'Connor Blvd., Suite 200, Irving, Texas 75039. The Company's telephone number is (972) 444-9001. The Company maintains another office in Midland, Texas. At December 31, 2015 , the Company had 3,732 employees, 1,533 of whom were employed in field and plant operations and 853 of whom were employed in vertical integration activities. 

Available Information 

Pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). The public may read and copy any materials that Pioneer files with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Pioneer, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that Pioneer files with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov . 

The Company also makes available free of charge through its Internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. In addition to the reports filed or furnished with the SEC, Pioneer publicly discloses information from time to time in its press releases, investor presentations posted on its website and in publicly accessible conferences. Such information, including information posted on or connected to the Company's website, is not a part of, or incorporated by reference in, this Report or any other document the Company files with or furnishes to the SEC. 

Mission and Strategies 

The Company's mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize Pioneer's long-term profitability and net asset value. The strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility, capital allocation discipline and enhancing net asset value through accretive drilling programs, joint ventures and acquisition and divestiture activities. These strategies are primarily anchored by the Company's interests in the long-lived Spraberry/Wolfcamp oil field located in West Texas, which has an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. Underlying the Spraberry/Wolfcamp field is 70 percent of the Company's total proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2015 . Complementing this growth area, the Company has oil and gas production activities and development and exploration opportunities in the following areas: 

&#8226; 

the liquid-rich Eagle Ford Shale play located in South Texas; 

&#8226; 

the Raton gas field located in southern Colorado; 

&#8226; 

the West Panhandle gas and liquids field located in the Texas Panhandle; and 

&#8226; 

the Edwards gas field located in South Texas. 

Business Activities 

The Company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. Pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. In so doing, the Company sells homogenous oil, NGL and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the Company's competitors. Competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. 

Petroleum industry. &#32;Until the middle of 2014, North American oil prices had been fairly stable despite the significant increase in United States oil production from unconventional shale plays. During such time, the growth in North American oil production had been offset by reduced oil imports, keeping supply and demand fairly balanced in the United States. On an international level, the geopolitical factors negatively impacting international oil supplies were offset by the decline in exports to 

PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY 

the United States, resulting in generally stable world oil prices. During the second half of 2014, however, as United States production continued to surge, worldwide demand was sluggish, reflecting the decline in the Chinese growth rate, the lingering recession in Europe and weaker economic performance in other regions, resulting in a worldwide oversupply of oil and oil price weakness. During the fourth quarter of 2014, members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ("OPEC") decided to maintain production quotas at current levels despite production outpacing demand. This caused oil prices, which had already been declining, to decrease significantly in December 2014. The market oversupply of oil continued in 2015, resulting in further declines in oil prices, and the supply of oil in 2016 is expected to continue to outpace demand growth, with worldwide storage levels continuing to increase. With major world producers expecting to continue producing at current levels and the re-introduction of Iranian supplies previously subject to international sanctions, oil prices are expected to remain under pressure during 2016. 

The growth of unconventional shale drilling has also substantially increased the supply of NGLs, resulting in a significant decline in NGL component prices as the supply of such products has grown. While more export facilities have been built and NGL exports are increasing, the overall United States demand for NGL products has not kept pace with the supply of such products; consequently, prices for NGL products have generally declined over the past three years. NGL product supplies are expected to remain at elevated levels during 2016, which is expected to keep NGL prices under pressure during 2016. 

The decline in North American gas prices from 2009 through 2012 was primarily a result of significant discoveries of gas and associated gas reserves in United States gas, oil and liquid-rich shale plays, combined with minimal economic demand growth in the United States. The increases in gas prices during the latter part of 2013 and the first nine months of 2014 were primarily related to reduced drilling activity in gas shale plays coupled with demand increases associated with colder winter weather, which resulted in reduced gas storage levels during 2014. Gas prices began decreasing in the fourth quarter of 2014 and continued to decline throughout 2015 and into 2016 as a result of supply increases and warmer than normal winter weather, which has resulted in gas storage levels being at historical highs. The current oversupply of gas is expected to continue during 2016. 

&#32;Oil prices continue to be primarily driven by world supply and demand fundamentals. Recent increases in United States oil, NGL and gas production volumes from the Permian Basin, Eagle Ford, Bakken, Marcellus and Utica areas have been met with lower demand, higher storage levels and pipeline, gas plant and NGL fractionation infrastructure capacity limitations. These factors led to a reduction during 2015 in United States NYMEX oil, NGL and gas prices compared to international prices for similar commodities, including Brent oil prices, although United States and international prices have recently converged as a result of the lifting of the United States oil export ban in December 2015. 

Since 2010, the United States economy, along with the economies of a few other countries, has generally been stable, achieving modest improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. However, other economies, such as those of certain European and Asian nations, continue to face economic struggles or slowing economic growth. Consequently, the worldwide economy has remained sluggish despite multiple stimulus packages being enacted by various governments. The outlook for a worldwide economic recovery remains uncertain; therefore, the likelihood of a sustained recovery in worldwide demand for energy is difficult to predict. As a result, the Company believes it is likely that commodity prices will continue to be volatile during 2016. 

Significant factors that will affect 2016 commodity prices include: the impact of announced capital spending decreases on forecasted United States oil, NGL and gas supplies; the ongoing effect of economic stimulus initiatives; fiscal challenges facing the United States federal government and potential changes to the tax laws in the United States; continuing economic struggles in European and Asian nations; political and economic developments in North Africa and the Middle East; demand from Asian and European markets; the extent to which members of OPEC and other oil exporting nations are willing or able to manage oil supply through export quotas; the supply and demand fundamentals for NGLs in the United States and the pace at which export capacity grows; and overall North American gas supply and demand fundamentals, including gas storage levels that are anticipated to be higher than normal at the end of the winter draw season. 

Pioneer uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the Company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. Although the Company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production through 2016, the lower commodity price environment has resulted in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and a reduction in the prices at which the Company is able to enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. As a result, the Company's internal cash flows have been negatively impacted by the reduction in commodity prices and are expected to continue to be impacted until commodity prices improve. If commodity prices remain at current levels or decline further, the Company could experience a shortfall in expected future cash flows, which could negatively affect the Company's liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and Note E of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information regarding the Company's open derivative positions as of December 31, 2015 , and subsequent changes to these positions. 

PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY 

The Company. &#32;The Company's growth plan is primarily anchored by horizontal drilling in the Spraberry/Wolfcamp oil field located in West Texas. Complementing this growth area, the Company has oil and gas production activities and development and exploration opportunities in the liquid-rich Eagle Ford Shale field located in South Texas, the Raton gas field located in southern Colorado, the West Panhandle gas and liquids field located in the Texas Panhandle and the Edwards gas field located in South Texas. Combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources and opportunities that are well balanced and diversified among oil, NGL and gas, and that are also well balanced among long-lived, dependable production and lower-risk exploration and development opportunities. The Company has a team of dedicated employees who represent the professional disciplines and sciences that the Company believes are necessary to allow Pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets. 

Production. &#32;The Company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, NGLs and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties, while minimizing the controllable costs associated with the production activities. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , the Company's production from continuing operations of 74 &#32;MMBOE, excluding field fuel usage, represented a 12 percent increase over production from continuing operations during 2014 . Production, price and cost information with respect to the Company's properties for 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 &#32;is set forth in "Item 2. Properties &#8212; Selected Oil and Gas Information &#8212; Production, price and cost data." 

Development activities. &#32;The Company seeks to increase its proved oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. During the three years ended December 31, 2015 , the Company drilled 870 gross (719 net) development wells, with over 99 percent of the wells being successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the Company's interest) of $3.9 billion. 

The Company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. The Company's proved reserves as of December 31, 2015 &#32;include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 47 &#32;MMBbls of oil, 15 &#32;MMBbls of NGLs and 157 &#32;Bcf of gas. The Company believes that its proved reserves provide a meaningful portfolio of development opportunities. The timing of the development of these proved reserves will be dependent upon commodity prices, drilling and operating costs and the Company's expected operating cash flows and financial condition. 

Exploratory activities. &#32;The Company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled geoscience staff as well as acquiring a significant portfolio of lower-risk exploration opportunities that are expected to be evaluated and tested over the next decade and beyond. Exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors &#8212; Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves" below. 

Integrated services. The Company continues to utilize its integrated services to control well costs and operating costs in addition to supporting the execution of its drilling and production activities. The Company owns fracture stimulation fleets totaling approximately 450,000 horsepower that support its drilling operations . The Company also owns other field service equipment that support its drilling and production operations, including pulling units, fracture stimulation tanks, water transport trucks, hot oilers, blowout preventers, construction equipment and fishing tools. In addition, Premier Silica (the Company's wholly-owned sand mining subsidiary) is supplying high-quality and logistically advantaged brown sand for proppant, which is being used by the Company to fracture stimulate horizontal wells in the Spraberry/Wolfcamp field. 

Acquisition activities. &#32;The Company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. In addition, the Company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the Company to expand into new geographical areas that provide future exploration/exploitation opportunities. During 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , the Company spent $36 million , $104 million and $76 million, respectively, to purchase primarily undeveloped acreage for future exploitation and exploration activities. 

In December 2014, the Company acquired the remaining limited partner interests in five &#32;affiliated partnerships for $54 million &#32;and caused the partnerships to be merged with and into the Company. In addition, in December 2013, the Company completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding common units of Pioneer Southwest not already owned by the Company in exchange for 3.96 million shares of the Company's common stock through a merger of a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company into Pioneer Southwest, the result of which was that Pioneer Southwest became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. 

The Company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. Such stages may take the form of internal financial analyses, oil and gas reserve analyses, due diligence, the submission of indications of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiation of letters of intent or negotiation of definitive agreements. The success of any acquisition is uncertain and depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside the Company's control. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors &#8212; 

PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY 

The Company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business." 

Asset divestitures and discontinued operations. &#32;The Company regularly reviews its asset base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. While the Company generally does not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions can have the result of furthering the Company's objective of increasing financial flexibility through reduced debt levels. 

EFS Midstream. &#32;In July 2015, the Company completed the sale of its 50.1 percent equity interest in EFS Midstream LLC ("EFS Midstream") to an unaffiliated third party, with the Company receiving total consideration of $1.0 billion , of which $530 million &#32;was received at closing and the remaining approximately $500 million &#32;will be received in July 2016. 

Sendero. In March 2014, the Company completed the sale of its majority interest in Sendero Drilling Company, LLC ("Sendero") to Sendero's minority interest owner for cash proceeds of $31 million . As part of the sales agreement, the Company committed to lease from Sendero 12 &#32;vertical rigs through December 31, 2015 and eight &#32;vertical rigs in 2016. 

Southern Wolfcamp. In January 2013, the Company signed an agreement with Sinochem Petroleum USA LLC ("Sinochem") to sell 40 percent of Pioneer's interest in 207,000 net acres leased by the Company in the horizontal Wolfcamp Shale play in the southern portion of the Spraberry field in West Texas for consideration of $1.8 billion. In May 2013, the Company completed the sale for cash proceeds of $624 million, which resulted in a gain of $181 million related to the unproved property interests conveyed to Sinochem. Sinochem has been paying the remaining $1.2 billion of the transaction price by carrying 75 percent of Pioneer's portion of ongoing drilling and facilities costs attributable to the Company's joint operations with Sinochem in the southern portion of the horizontal Wolfcamp Shale play. At December 31, 2015, the unused carry balance totaled $197 million . 

Asset divestitures reflected as discontinued operations. During 2014, the Company completed the sale of (i) its net assets in the Hugoton field in southwest Kansas for cash proceeds of $328 million , (ii) its net assets in the Barnett Shale field in North Texas for cash proceeds of $150 million &#32;and (iii) 100 percent of its capital stock in Pioneer's Alaska subsidiary ("Pioneer Alaska") for cash proceeds of $267 million . 

The Company has reflected the results of operations of its Hugoton assets, its Barnett Shale assets and Pioneer Alaska (prior to their sale) as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. 

The Company anticipates that it will continue to sell nonstrategic properties or other assets from time to time to increase capital resources available for other activities, to achieve operating and administrative efficiencies and to improve profitability. See Notes C and D of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for specific information regarding the Company's asset divestitures, impairments and discontinued operations. Also see "Item 1A. Risk Factors - The Company's ability to complete dispositions of assets, or interests in assets, may be subject to factors beyond its control, and in certain cases the Company may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters" for a discussion of risk factors associated with the completion of divestitures. 

Marketing of Production 

General. &#32;Production from the Company's properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. Sales prices for oil, NGL and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as an index or spot price, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, commodity quality and prevailing supply and demand conditions. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for additional discussion regarding price risk. 

Significant purchasers. &#32;During 2015 , the Company's significant purchasers of oil, NGLs and gas were Plains Marketing LP ( 22 percent ), Occidental Energy Marketing Inc. ( 18 percent ), Vitol, Inc. ( 18 percent ) and Enterprise Product Partners L.P. ( 12 percent ). The Company believes the loss of a significant purchaser or an inability to secure adequate pipeline, gas plant and NGL fractionation infrastructure in its key producing areas could have a material adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, NGL and gas production. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors" and Note L of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for more information about significant customer and infrastructure capacity risks. 

Derivative risk management activities. &#32;The Company primarily utilizes commodity swap contracts, collar contracts and collar contracts with short puts to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the Company produces and sells or consumes, (ii) support the Company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. The Company also, from time to time, utilizes interest rate derivative contracts to reduce the effect of interest rate volatility on the Company's indebtedness. The Company accounts for its derivative contracts using the 

PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY 

mark-to-market ("MTM") method of accounting. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a description of the Company's derivative risk management activities, "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and Note E of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information about the impact of commodity derivative activities on oil, NGL and gas revenues and net derivative gains and losses during 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , as well as the Company's open commodity derivative positions at December 31, 2015 , and subsequent changes to those positions. 

Competition, Markets and Regulations 

Competition. &#32;The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. A large number of companies, including major integrated and other independent companies, and individuals engage in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. Acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an important element of the Company's growth. The Company intends to continue acquiring oil and gas properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. The principal competitive factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, evaluate and acquire such properties and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop the properties. Some of the Company's competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the Company. 

Markets. &#32;The Company's ability to produce and market oil, NGLs and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the Company's control. The effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. Although the Company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect commodity prices or the degree to which commodity prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the Company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production. 

Securities regulations. &#32;Enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the SEC and the NYSE. This regulatory oversight imposes on the Company the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and ensuring that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the SEC do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading. Failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the SEC could subject the Company to litigation from public or private plaintiffs. Failure to comply with the rules of the NYSE could result in the de-listing of the Company's common stock, which would have an adverse effect on the market price and liquidity of the Company's common stock. Compliance with some of these rules and regulations is costly, and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation. 

&#160; Environmental and occupational health and safety matters. &#32;The Company's operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing worker health and safety, the discharge of materials into the environment and environmental protection. Numerous governmental entities, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, which may cause the Company to incur significant capital expenditures or take costly actions to achieve and maintain compliance. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or any underlying permits may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil and criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory, remedial or corrective action obligations; the occurrence of delays in the permitting, development or expansion of projects; and the issuance of injunctive relief limiting or prohibiting Company activities. 

These laws and regulations may, among other things: 

&#8226; 

require the acquisition of various permits before drilling or other regulated activity commences; 

&#8226; 

restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that may be released into the environment in connection with oil and gas drilling, production and transportation activities; 

&#8226; 

limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; 

&#8226; 

impose specific criteria addressing worker protection; 

&#8226; 

require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells; and 

&#8226; 

impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. 

These laws and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and gas production below the rate that would otherwise be possible. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. Additionally, the U.S. Congress, state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies frequently revise environmental laws and regulations, and the trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on 

PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY 

activities that may adversely affect the environment. Any such changes that result in delays or restrictions in permitting, or more stringent and costly drilling, completion, construction or water management activities, or waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements could have a significant effect on the Company's capital and operating costs. 

The following is a summary of some of the more significant laws and regulations, which may be amended from time to time, to which the Company's business operations are or may be subject. 

Waste handling. &#32;The federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Under the authority delegated by the EPA, the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. While drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of oil or gas are currently excluded from regulation as hazardous wastes and instead are regulated under RCRA's non-hazardous waste provisions, it is possible that in the future such exclusion may be legally challenged or such excluded wastes classified as hazardous wastes. For example, in August 2015, several non-governmental organizations filed notice of intent to sue the EPA under RCRA for, among other things, the agency's alleged failure to reconsider whether such exclusion should continue to apply. Any removal of this exclusion could result in an increase in the Company's costs to manage and dispose of these wastes as hazardous wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial position. In the course of its operations, the Company generates some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents and waste oils that may be regulated as hazardous wastes. 

Wastes containing naturally occurring radioactive materials ("NORM") may also be generated in connection with the Company's operations. NORM is subject primarily to individual state radiation control regulations. In addition, NORM handling and management activities are governed by regulations promulgated by the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA"). These state and OSHA regulations impose certain requirements concerning worker protection, with respect to NORM, the treatment, storage and disposal of NORM waste, the management of waste piles, containers and tanks containing NORM and restrictions on the uses of land with NORM contamination. 

Hazardous substance releases. &#32;The federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), also known as the Superfund law, and analogous state laws impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. These persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. CERCLA also authorizes the EPA and, in some instances, third parties to act in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. 

The Company currently owns or leases numerous properties that have been used for oil and gas exploration and production for many years. Although the Company believes it has used operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes or petroleum hydrocarbons may have been released on or under the properties owned or leased by the Company, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for treatment or disposal. In addition, some of the Company's properties have been operated by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or petroleum hydrocarbons were not under the Company's control. Certain of these properties have had historical petroleum spills or releases. All of such properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, the Company could be required to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination. If a surface spill or release were to occur, the Company expects that it would be controlled, contained and remediated in accordance with the applicable requirements of state oil and gas commissions and by using the Company's spill prevention, control and countermeasure ("SPCC") plans or other spill or emergency contingency plans that it maintains in accordance with EPA requirements. 

Water discharges and use. &#32;The federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act (the "CWA"), and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the United States and state waters. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the EPA or an analogous state agency. The CWA and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. SPCC planning requirements of federal laws require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters by a petroleum hydrocarbon tank spill, rupture or 

PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY 

leak. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties, as well as require remedial or mitigation measures, for noncompliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the CWA and analogous state laws and regulations. In May 2015, the EPA issued a final rule that attempts to clarify the federal jurisdictional reach over waters of the United States but this rule has been stayed nationwide by the U.S. Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals as that appellate court and numerous district courts consider lawsuits opposing implementation of the rule. 

The primary federal law imposing liability for oil spills is the Oil Pollution Act ("OPA"), which amends the CWA and sets minimum standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills. OPA applies to vessels, offshore facilities and onshore facilities, including exploration and production facilities that may affect waters of the United States. Under OPA, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, may be held strictly liable for oil spill cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills. OPA also requires owners or operators of certain onshore facilities to prepare Facility Response Plans for responding to a worst-case discharge of oil into waters of the United States. 

Fluids associated with oil and gas production from the Company's properties, consisting primarily of salt water, are generally disposed by injection in underground disposal wells. These disposal wells are regulated pursuant to the Underground Injection Control ("UIC") program established under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act ("SDWA") and analogous state laws. The UIC program requires permits from the EPA or an analogous state agency for the construction and operation of the Company's disposal wells, establishes minimum standards for disposal well operations, and restricts the types and quantities of fluids that may be disposed. Currently, the Company believes that disposal well operations on the Company's properties substantially comply with all applicable requirements under the SDWA. However, a change in the regulations or the inability to obtain permits for new disposal wells in the future may affect the Company's ability to dispose of salt water and other fluids and ultimately increase the cost of the Company's operations. For example, there exists a growing concern that the injection of salt water and other fluids into underground disposal wells triggers seismic activity in certain areas, including in some parts of Texas and Colorado, where the Company operates. In Texas, the Texas Railroad Commission (the "TRC") published a final rule in 2014 governing permitting or re-permitting of disposal wells that would require, among other things, the submission of information on seismic events occurring within a specified radius of the disposal well location, as well as logs, geologic cross sections and structure maps relating to the disposal area in question. If the permittee or an applicant of a disposal well permit fails to demonstrate that the injected fluids are confined to the disposal zone or if scientific data indicates such a disposal well is likely to be or determined to be contributing to seismic activity, then the TRC may deny, modify, suspend or terminate the permit application or existing operating permit for that well. In Colorado, the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission (the "COGCC") conducts, as part of the disposal well permit application review process, a review for seismicity that considers area-specific knowledge of earthquakes to assess seismic potential. If historical seismicity has been identified in the vicinity of a proposed disposal well permit application, the COGCC requires an operator to define the seismicity potential and the proximity to faults through geologic and geophysical data prior to any permit approval. With respect to existing disposal wells, in the event that seismic incidents occur in the vicinity of such wells, the COGCC may temporarily shut down such nearby wells and assess whether and to what extent activities at such wells may be linked to the seismic incidents, the results of which assessment could result in further well operating restrictions or even well abandonment, thereby delaying production by the Company. 

The water produced by the Company's CBM operations also may be subject to the state laws and regulations of regulatory bodies regarding the ownership and use of water. For example, in connection with the Company's CBM operations in the Raton Basin in Colorado, water is removed from coal seams to reduce pressure and allow the methane to be recovered. Historically, these operations have been regulated by the state agency responsible for regulating oil and gas activity in the state. Nevertheless, in 2009, the Colorado Supreme Court affirmed a state court holding that water produced in connection with the CBM operations should be subject to state water-use regulations administered by the Colorado State Engineer, an agency separate from the COGCC that regulates other uses of water in the state, including requirements to obtain permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing uses of the water, and a possible requirement to provide mitigation water supplies for water rights owners with more senior rights. The Colorado legislature and state agency adopted laws and regulations in response to this ruling. These and other resulting changes in the regulation of water produced from CBM operations may have an adverse effect on the costs of doing business and the ability to expand CBM operations by the Company or other CBM producers. 

Hydraulic fracturing . The Company also uses hydraulic fracturing techniques in virtually all of its drilling and completion programs, and development of its properties is dependent on the Company's ability to hydraulically fracture the producing formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to stimulate oil and gas production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example, in August 2015, the EPA issued a proposed rulemaking that would establish new requirements for emissions of methane from certain equipment and processes in the oil and gas source category, including first-time standards to address emissions of methane from hydraulically fractured oil and gas well completions; in April 2015, the EPA proposed guidelines that waste water from shale gas extraction operations must meet before discharging to a treatment plant; and in May 2014, the EPA issued a prepublication of its Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking 

PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY 

regarding Toxic Substances Control Act reporting of the chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing. Also, the federal Bureau of Land Management (the "BLM") published a final rule in March 2015 that establishes new or more stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian lands, but in September 2015, the U.S. District Court of Wyoming issued a preliminary injunction barring implementation of this rule, which order the BLM could appeal and is being separately appealed by certain environmental groups. 

From time to time, the U.S. Congress has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. In addition to any actions by the U.S. Congress, certain states in which the Company operates, including Colorado and Texas, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure and well-construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. States could elect to prohibit hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the lead of New York in 2015. Also, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. For example, several cities in Colorado passed temporary or permanent moratoria on hydraulic fracturing within their respective cities' limits in 2012-2013, but since that time, in response to lawsuits brought by an industry trade group, local district courts struck down the ordinances for certain of those Colorado cities in 2014, while a suit brought by the industry trade group against at least one other Colorado city remains pending. Two of the cities whose ordinances were struck down in 2014 were notified in September 2015 by the Colorado Supreme Court that the high court had agreed to hear their appeals. The Company believes that it follows applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in its hydraulic fracturing activities. Nonetheless, in the event federal, state or local restrictions are adopted in areas where the Company is currently conducting, or in the future plans to conduct operations, the Company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or the volume that the Company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves. 

Certain governmental reviews are underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices. Also, the EPA conducted a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater and, in June 2015, released its draft report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, which report concluded, among other things, that hydraulic fracturing activities have not lead to widespread, systemic impacts on drinking water sources in the United States, although there are above and below ground mechanisms by which hydraulic fracturing activities have the potential to impact drinking water sources. However, in January 2016, the EPA's Science Advisory Board provided its comments on the draft study, indicating its concern that EPA's conclusion of no widespread, systemic impacts on drinking water sources arising from fracturing activities did not reflect the uncertainties and data limitations associated with such impacts, as described in the body of the draft report. The final version of this EPA report remains pending and is expected to be completed in 2016. Such EPA final report, when issued, as well as other studies and initiatives or any future studies, depending on any meaningful results obtained or conclusions drawn, could spur efforts to further regulate hydraulic fracturing. 

Air emissions. &#32;The Clean Air Act (the "CAA") and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other compliance requirements. Such laws and regulations may require a facility to obtain pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions, obtain and strictly comply with air permits containing various emissions and operational limitations, or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions of certain air pollutants. Moreover, states may impose their own air emissions limitations, which may be more stringent than the federal standards imposed by the EPA. Federal and state regulatory agencies can also impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance with air permits or other requirements of the CAA and associated state laws and regulations. The adoption of laws, regulations, orders or other legally enforceable mandates governing oil and gas drilling and operating activities in the areas where the Company conducts business that result in more stringent emissions standards could increase the Company's costs or reduce its volume of production, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and cash flows. 

Moreover, permits and related compliance obligations under the CAA, as well as changes to state implementation plans for controlling air emissions in regional non-attainment areas, may require the Company to incur future capital expenditures in connection with the addition or modification of existing air emission control equipment and strategies for oil and gas exploration and production operations. For example, in October 2015, the EPA issued a final rule under the CAA for the purpose of making more stringent the National Ambient Air Quality Standard ("NAAQS") for ground-level ozone (reducing the standard to 70 parts per billion) under both the primary and secondary standards intended to provide protection of public health and welfare. Compliance with this final rule could increase the Company's capital expenditures and operating expense by, for example, requiring installation of new emission controls on some of the Company's equipment or result in longer permitting timelines, which could adversely impact the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. 

PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY 

Endangered species. &#32;The federal Endangered Species Act (the "ESA") and analogous state laws regulate activities that could have an adverse effect on species listed as threatened or endangered under the ESA. Some of the Company's operations are conducted in areas where protected species or their habitats are known to exist. In these areas, the Company may be obligated to develop and implement plans to avoid potential adverse effects to protected species and their habitats, and the Company may be prohibited from conducting operations in certain locations or during certain seasons, such as breeding and nesting seasons, when the Company's operations could have an adverse effect on the species. It is also possible that a federal or state agency could order a complete halt to drilling activities in certain locations if it is determined that such activities may have a serious adverse effect on a protected species. The presence of a protected species in areas where the Company performs activities could result in increased costs or limitations on the Company's ability to perform operations and thus have an adverse effect on the Company's business. 

Moreover, as a result of a settlement approved by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in 2011, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (the "FWS") is required to make a determination on the potential listing of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the ESA before completion of the agency's 2017 fiscal year. The designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where the Company operates could cause the Company to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on the Company's drilling and production activities that could have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to develop and produce its reserves. For example, in April 2014, the FWS published a final rule listing the lesser prairie chicken, whose habitat is over a five-state region, including Texas and Colorado, where the Company conducts operations, as a threatened species under the ESA. As a result of the 2014 listing of the lesser prairie chicken, the Company entered into a range-wide conservation planning agreement, pursuant to which the Company agreed to take steps to protect the lesser prairie chicken's habitat and to pay a mitigation fee if its actions harm the lesser prairie chicken's habitat. However, in September 2015, the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas vacated the FWS's rule listing the lesser prairie chicken in its entirety, concluding that the decision to list the species was arbitrary and capricious. Notwithstanding this court decision, the Company has continued its participation in the conservation planning agreement. In another example, the FWS is considering whether to list the Monarch butterfly, whose range includes Texas and Colorado, under the ESA; this listing status remains under review. Whether the lesser prairie chicken, the Monarch butterfly or other species will be listed in the future under the ESA is currently unknown, but any listing of a species under the ESA in areas where the Company performs activities could result in increased costs to the Company from species protection measures, time delays or limitations on the Company's activities, which costs, delays or limitations may be significant to the Company's business. 

Activities on federal lands. Oil and gas exploration, development and production activities on federal lands, including Indian lands and lands administered by the BLM, are subject to the National Environmental Policy Act ("NEPA"). NEPA requires federal agencies, including the BLM, to evaluate major agency actions having the potential to significantly impact the environment. In the course of such evaluations, an agency will prepare an Environmental Assessment that assesses the potential direct, indirect and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed Environmental Impact Statement that may be made available for public review and comment. Currently, the Company has minimal exploration and production activities on federal lands. &#32; However, for those current activities as well as for future or proposed exploration and development plans on federal lands, governmental permits or authorizations that are subject to the requirements of NEPA are required. This process has the potential to delay or limit, or increase the cost of, the development of oil and gas projects. Authorizations under NEPA are also subject to protest, appeal or litigation, any or all of which may delay or halt projects. Moreover, depending on the mitigation strategies recommended in the Environmental Assessments, the Company could incur added costs, which could be substantial. 

Occupational health and safety. &#32;The Company's operations are subject to the requirements of OSHA and comparable state statutes. These laws and the related regulations strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. The OSHA hazard communication standard, EPA community right-to-know regulations under Title III of CERCLA and similar state statues require that the Company organize or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in the Company's operations. In addition, the Company's sand mining operations are subject to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, as amended by the Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act of 2006, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters. 

Climate change. &#32;The EPA has made a determination that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases ("GHGs") present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has adopted regulations under the CAA that, among other things, establish certain permits and construction reviews designed to allow operations while ensuring the Prevention of Significant Deterioration ("PSD") of air quality by GHG emissions from large stationary sources that already may be potential sources of other regulated pollutant emissions. The Company could become subject to these permitting requirements and be required to install "best available control technology" to limit emissions of GHGs from any new or significantly modified facilities that the Company may seek to construct in the future if they would otherwise emit large volumes of GHGs from such sources. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of GHG emissions on an annual basis from specified GHG emission sources in the United States, including certain oil and gas production facilities, which includes certain of the 

PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY 

Company's facilities. The Company is monitoring GHG emissions from its operations in accordance with these GHG emissions reporting rules. 

While the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce GHG emissions at the federal level in recent years. In the absence of federal climate legislation in the United States, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of GHG emissions to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. 

The adoption of any legislation or regulations that require reporting of GHGs or otherwise restrict emissions of GHGs from the Company's equipment and operations could require the Company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements including the imposition of a carbon tax. For example, in August 2015, the EPA announced proposed rules, expected to be finalized in 2016, that would establish new controls for methane emissions from certain new, modified or reconstructed equipment and processes in the oil and gas source category, including production activities, as part of an overall effort to reduce methane emissions by up to 45 percent in 2025. On an international level, the United States is one of almost 200 nations that agreed in December 2015 to an international climate change agreement in Paris, France that calls for countries to set their own GHG emissions targets and be transparent about the measures each country will use to achieve its GHG emissions targets. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how new methane restrictions would impact the Company's business or how or when the United State might impose restrictions on GHGs as a result of the international agreement agreed to in Paris, any new legal requirements that impose more stringent requirements on the emission of GHGs from the Company's operations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost to the consumer, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, which could reduce the demand for the oil and gas the Company produces. Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. 

Other regulation of the oil and gas industry. &#32;The oil and gas industry is regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. Also, numerous federal and state departments and agencies are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry may increase the Company's cost of doing business by increasing the cost of production, the Company believes that these burdens generally do not affect the Company any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production. 

Development and production. &#32;Development and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at federal, state and local levels. These types of regulation include requiring permits for the drilling of wells, the posting of bonds in connection with various types of activities and filing reports concerning operations. Most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which the Company operates also regulate one or more of the following: 

&#8226; 

the location of wells; 

&#8226; 

the method of drilling and casing wells; 

&#8226; 

the method and ability to fracture stimulate wells; 

&#8226; 

the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; 

&#8226; 

the plugging and abandoning of wells; and 

&#8226; 

notice to surface owners and other third parties. 

&#160; 

State laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and gas properties. Some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate development while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce the Company's interest in the unitized properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose requirements regarding the ratability of production. These laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the Company can produce from the Company's wells or limit the number of wells or the locations at which the Company can drill. Moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, NGL and gas within its jurisdiction. States do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. The effect of such future regulations may be to limit the amounts of oil and gas that may be produced from the Company's wells, negatively affect the economics of production from these wells, or limit the number of locations the Company can drill. 

PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY 

Regulation of transportation and sale of gas. &#32;The availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of gas. Federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to gas pipeline transportation. Intrastate gas pipeline transportation activities are subject to various state laws and regulations, as well as orders of state regulatory bodies. The interstate transportation and sale of gas is subject to federal regulation, including regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC"). FERC endeavors to make gas transportation more accessible to gas buyers and sellers on an open-access and non-discriminatory basis. 

Pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005 ("EPAct 2005") it is unlawful for "any entity," including producers such as the Company, that are otherwise not subject to FERC's jurisdiction under the Natural Gas Act (the "NGA"), to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to regulation by FERC, in contravention of rules prescribed by FERC. FERC's rules implementing this provision make it unlawful, in connection with the purchase or sale of gas subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. EPAct 2005 also gives FERC authority to impose civil penalties of up to $1.0 million per day for each violation of the NGA or the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. The anti-manipulation rule applies to activities of entities not otherwise subject to FERC's jurisdiction to the extent the activities are conducted "in connection with" gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to FERC jurisdiction, which includes the annual reporting requirements under Order 704 (defined below). 

In December 2007, FERC issued a final rule on the annual gas transaction reporting requirements, as amended by subsequent orders on rehearing ("Order 704"). Under Order 704, any market participant, including a producer such as the Company, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million MMBtus of physical gas in the previous calendar year must annually report such sales and purchases to FERC on Form No. 552 on May 1 of each year. Form No. 552 contains aggregate volumes of gas purchased or sold at wholesale in the prior calendar year to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to or may contribute to the formation of price indices. It is the responsibility of the reporting entity to determine which individual transactions should be reported based on the guidance of Order 704. Order 704 is intended to increase the transparency of the wholesale gas markets and to assist FERC in monitoring those markets and in detecting market manipulation. 

Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the gas industry are considered from time to time by the U.S. Congress, FERC, state regulatory bodies and the courts. The Company cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective or their effect, if any, on its operations. The Company does not believe that it will be affected by any action taken in a materially different way than other gas producers, gatherers and marketers with which it competes. 

Natural gas processing . The Company's gas processing operations are not subject to FERC or state regulation. There can be no assurance that the Company's processing operations will continue to be exempt from regulation in the future. However, although the processing facilities may not be directly related, other laws and regulations may affect the availability of gas for processing, such as state regulation of production rates and maximum daily production allowable from gas wells, which could impact the Company's processing business. 

Gas gathering. &#32;Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts gas gathering facilities from FERC's jurisdiction. The Company believes that its gathering facilities meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish a pipeline system's status as a non-jurisdictional gatherer. There is, however, no bright-line test for determining the jurisdictional status of pipeline facilities. Moreover, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of litigation from time to time, so the classification and regulation of some of the Company's gathering facilities may be subject to change based on future determinations by FERC and the courts. Thus, the Company cannot guarantee that the jurisdictional status of its gas gathering facilities will remain unchanged. 

While the Company owns or operates some gas gathering facilities, the Company also depends on gathering facilities owned and operated by third parties to gather production from its properties, and therefore the Company is affected by the rates charged by these third parties for gathering services. To the extent that changes in federal or state regulation affect the rates charged for gathering services, the Company also may be affected by these changes. Accordingly, the Company does not anticipate that the Company would be affected any differently than similarly situated gas producers. 

Regulation of transportation and sale of oil and NGLs . The liquids industry is also extensively regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. In a number of instances, the ability to transport and sell such products on interstate pipelines is dependent on pipelines whose rates, terms and conditions of service are subject to FERC jurisdiction under the Interstate Commerce Act (the "ICA"). The Company does not believe these regulations affect it any differently than other producers. 

PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY 

The ICA requires that pipelines maintain a tariff on file with FERC. The tariff sets forth the established rates as well as the rules and regulations governing the service. The ICA requires, among other things, that rates and terms and conditions of service on interstate common carrier pipelines be "just and reasonable." Such pipelines must also provide jurisdictional service in a manner that is not unduly discriminatory or unduly preferential. Shippers have the power to challenge new and existing rates and terms and conditions of service before FERC. 

Rates of interstate liquids pipelines are currently regulated by FERC primarily through an annual indexing methodology, under which pipelines increase or decrease their rates in accordance with an index adjustment specified by FERC. For the five-year period beginning in July 2011, FERC established an annual index adjustment equal to the change in the producer price index for finished goods plus 2.65 percent. This adjustment is subject to review every five years. Under FERC's regulations, a liquids pipeline can request a rate increase that exceeds the rate obtained through application of the indexing methodology by using a cost-of-service approach, but only after the pipeline establishes that a substantial divergence exists between the actual costs experienced by the pipeline and the rates resulting from application of the indexing methodology. Increases in liquids transportation rates may result in lower revenue and cash flows for the Company. 

In addition, due to common carrier regulatory obligations of liquids pipelines, capacity must be prorated among shippers in an equitable manner in the event there are nominations in excess of capacity by current shippers or capacity requests are received from a new shipper. Therefore, new shippers or increased volume by existing shippers may reduce the capacity available to the Company. Any prolonged interruption in the operation or curtailment of available capacity of the pipelines that the Company relies upon for liquids transportation could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. However, the Company believes that access to liquids pipeline transportation services generally will be available to it to the same extent as to its similarly-situated competitors. 

Intrastate liquids pipeline transportation rates are subject to regulation by state regulatory commissions. The basis for intrastate liquids pipeline regulation, and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate liquids pipeline rates, varies from state to state. The Company believes that the regulation of liquids pipeline transportation rates will not affect its operations in any way that is materially different from the effects on its similarly-situated competitors. 

In November 2009, the Federal Trade Commission (the "FTC") issued regulations pursuant to the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 intended to prohibit market manipulation in the petroleum industry. Violators of the regulations face civil penalties of up to $1.0 million per violation per day. In July 2010, the U.S. Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which incorporated an expansion of the authority of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the "CFTC") to prohibit market manipulation in the markets regulated by the CFTC. This authority, with respect to oil swaps and futures contracts, is similar to the anti-manipulation authority granted to the FERC with respect to anti-manipulation in the gas industry and the FTC with respect to oil purchases and sales, as described above. In July 2011, the CFTC issued final rules to implement their new anti-manipulation authority. The rules subject violators to a civil penalty of up to the greater of $1.0 million or triple the monetary gain to the person for each violation. 

Energy commodity prices . Sales prices of oil, condensate, NGLs and gas are not currently regulated and sales are made at market prices. Although prices of these energy commodities are currently unregulated, the U.S. Congress historically has been active in their regulation. The Company cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate oil and gas might actually be enacted by the U.S. Congress or the various state legislatures, and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the Company's operations. 

Transportation of hazardous materials . The federal Department of Transportation has adopted regulations requiring that certain entities transporting designated hazardous materials develop plans to address security risks related to the transportation of hazardous materials. The Company does not believe that these requirements will have an adverse effect on the Company or its operations. The Company cannot provide any assurance that the security plans required under these regulations would protect against all security risks and prevent an attack or other incident related to the Company's transportation of hazardous materials. 

