 ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Back to Table of Contents 

Some of the statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K of Kinder Holding Corp. (hereinafter the &#34;Company&#34;, &#34;We&#34; or the &#34;Registrant&#34;) discuss future expectations, contain projections of our plan of operation or financial condition or state other forward-looking information. In this registration statement, forward-looking statements are generally identified by the words such as &#34;anticipate&#34;, &#34;plan&#34;, &#34;believe&#34;, &#34;expect&#34;, &#34;estimate&#34;, and the like. Forward-looking statements involve future risks and uncertainties, there are factors that could cause actual results or plans to differ materially from those expressed or implied. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements. The forward-looking information is based on various factors and is derived using numerous assumptions. A reader, whether investing in the Company's securities or not, should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this annual report. Important factors that may cause actual results to differ from projections include, for example: 

&#159; &#160; the success or failure of Management's efforts to implement the Registrant's plan of operation; &#159; &#160; the ability of the Registrant to fund its operating expenses; &#159; &#160; t he ability of the Registrant to compete with other companies that have a similar plan of operation; &#159; &#160; the effect of changing economic conditions impacting our plan of operation; &#159; &#160; the ability of the Registrant to meet the other risks as may be described in future filings with the SEC. 

General Background of the Registrant 

The Company was incorporated on November 10, 1952 in Michigan as Gantos, Inc. On July 21, 2008, the Company completed its change in domicile to Delaware and subsequently changed its name to Kinder Holding Corp. 

The Company was a specialty retailer of a full range of quality, fashionable women's apparel and accessories at moderate to higher prices. The Company operated up to 113 stores, averaging 8,000 square feet, in 23 states, located primarily in suburban malls in the West, Midwest and Northeast of the United States. The Company offered a selection of primarily name brand sportswear, career dresses and suits, social occasion dresses, accessories, outerwear, swimwear, and in selected stores, shoes. On December 28, 1999, the Company filed a Voluntary Petition under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code with the United States Bankruptcy Court (the &#34;Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Petition&#34;). 

On June 20, 2000, the Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Petition was converted into a Chapter 7 petition. As a result of the conversion to Chapter 7, the Registrant's assets were transferred to a United States Trustee and the Registrant terminated its former business operations. During 2006, the Bankruptcy Trustee had disposed of substantially all of the assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries. In February 2007, the Trustee for the Company and Park Avenue Group, Inc. entered into a contract that was subject to Bankruptcy Court approval for the sale of certain asset free and clear of all liens, claims and encumbrances, the asset being comprised of the corporate shell of the debtor, Gantos, Inc. (the "Asset"). On February 27, 2007, the Bankruptcy Court granted an order approving the contract and finding that Park Avenue Group is a good faith purchaser within the meaning of 11 USC Section 363(m) of the Bankruptcy Code (the &#34;Order&#34;). 

In connection with the Order of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court, the Court authorized (i) that the existing officers and directors were deemed removed from office; (ii) the appointment of new members to the Registrant's board of directors; and (iii) the amendment of Registrant's Article of Incorporation. 

On February 28, 2007 and as a result of the Bankruptcy Court Order, Park Avenue Group appointed Ivo Heiden to the board of directors of the Registrant and to serve as its sole executive officer (the &#34;Management&#34;).

Page 3 

Business Objectives of the Company 

T he Registrant has had no present operations. Management has determined to direct its efforts and limited resources to pursue potential new business opportunities. The Registrant does not intend to limit itself to a particular industry and has not established any particular criteria upon which it shall consider and proceed with a business opportunity. 

The Registrant's common stock has been subject to quotation on the pink sheets under the symbol KDRH. There is currently no active trading market in the Registrant's shares nor do we believe that any active trading market has existed for the last 3 years. There can be no assurance that there will be an active trading market for our securities. In the event that an active trading market commences, there can be no assurance as to the market price of our shares of common stock, whether any trading market will provide liquidity to investors, or whether any trading market will be sustained. 

Management would have substantial flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective new business opportunity. The Registrant is dependent on the judgment of its Management in connection with this process. In evaluating a prospective business opportunity, we would consider, among other factors, the following: 

&#159; &#160; costs associated with pursuing a new business opportunity; &#159; &#160; growth potential of the new business opportunity; &#159; &#160; experiences, skills and availability of additional personnel necessary to pursue a potential new business opportunity; &#159; &#160; necessary capital requirements; &#159; &#160; the competitive position of the new business opportunity; &#159; &#160; stage of business development; &#159; &#160; the market acceptance of the potential products and services; &#159; &#160; proprietary features and degree of intellectual property; and &#159; &#160; the regulatory environment that may be applicable to any prospective business opportunity. 

The foregoing criteria are not intended to be exhaustive and there may be other criteria that Management may deem relevant. In connection with an evaluation of a prospective or potential business opportunity, Management may be expected to conduct a due diligence review. 

The time and costs required to pursue new business opportunities, which includes negotiating and documenting relevant agreements and preparing requisite documents for filing pursuant to applicable securities laws, can not be ascertained with any degree of certainty. 

Management intends to devote such time as it deems necessary to carry out the Registrant's affairs. The exact length of time required for the pursuit of any new potential business opportunities is uncertain. No assurance can be made that we will be successful in our efforts. We cannot project the amount of time that our Management will actually devote to the Registrant's plan of operation. 

The Registrant intends to conduct its activities so as to avoid being classified as an &#34;Investment Company&#34; under the Investment Company Act of 1940, and therefore avoid application of the costly and restrictive registration and other provisions of the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the regulations promulgated thereunder. 

Registrant is a Blank Check Company 

At present, the Registrant has no revenues, no assets and no specific business plan or purpose. The Registrant's business plan is to seek new business opportunities or to engage in a merger or acquisition with an unidentified company. As a result, the Registrant is a &#34;blank check company&#34; and, as a result, any offerings of the Registrant's securities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the &#34;Securities Act&#34;) must comply with Rule 419 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#34;SEC&#34;) under the Act. The Registrant's Common Stock is a &#34;penny stock,&#34; as defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated by the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the &#34;Exchange Act&#34;). The Penny Stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about Penny Stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. Page 4 

The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its sales person in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each Penny Stock held in the customer's account. In addition, the Penny Stock rules require that the broker-dealer, not otherwise exempt from such rules, must make a special written determination that the Penny Stock is suitable for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure rules have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to the Penny Stock rules. So long as the common stock of the Registrant is subject to the Penny Stock rules, it may be more difficult to sell the Registrant's common stock.

We are a Shell Company as defined in Rule 405 promulgated by the SEC under the Securities Act. A Shell Company is one that has no or nominal operations and either: (i) no or nominal assets; or (ii) assets consisting primarily of cash or cash equivalents. As a Shell Company, we are restricted in our use of Registrations on Form S-8 under the Securities Act; the lack of availability of the use of Rule 144 by security holders; and the lack of liquidity in our stock.

&#160; Form S-8 

Shell companies are prohibited from using Form S-8 to register securities under the Securities Act. If a company ceases to be a Shell Company, it may use Form S-8 sixty calendar days, provided it has filed all reports and other materials required to be filed under the Exchange Act during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that it has been required to file such reports and materials after the company files &#34;Form 10 information,&#34; which is information that a company would be required to file in a registration statement on Form 10 if it were registering a class of securities under Section 12 of the Exchange Act. This information would normally be reported on a current report on Form 8-K reporting the completion of a transaction that caused the company to cease being a Shell Company.

Unavailability of Rule 144 for Resale 

Rule 144(i) &#34;Unavailability to Securities of Issuers With No or Nominal Operations and No or Nominal Non-Cash Assets&#34; provides that Rule 144 is not available for the resale of securities initially issued by an issuer that is a Shell Company. We have identified our company as a Shell Company and, therefore, the holders of our securities may not rely on Rule 144 to have the restriction removed from their securities without registration or until the company is no longer identified as a Shell Company.

As a result of our classification as a Shell Company, our investors are not allowed to rely on the &#34;safe harbor&#34; provisions of Rule 144, promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act, so as not to be considered underwriters in connection with the sale of our securities until one year from the date that we cease to be a Shell Company. This will likely make it more difficult for us to attract additional capital through subsequent unregistered offerings because purchasers of securities in such unregistered offerings will not be able to resell their securities in reliance on Rule 144, a safe harbor on which holders of restricted securities usually rely to resell securities. 

&#160; Very Limited Liquidity of our Common Stock 

Our common stock trades from time to time on the OTC Grey Markets but there is no active market maker that maintains a quote in our common stock. As a result, there is very limited liquidity of our common stock. We plan to seek quotation of our common stock on the OTCQB Market. In order for our common stock to become subject to quotation on the OTCQB Market, we must obtain a market maker to file an application with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) on our behalf pursuant to Rule 15c2-11 under the Exchange Act. If we fail to continue to comply with the listing requirements of the OTCQB Market, the price of our common stock and the ability of our stockholders to to access the capital markets could be negatively impacted. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to continue to satisfy the requirements of the OTCQB Markets' for continued quotation. 

We will be deemed a blank check company under Rule 419 of the Securities Act 

The provisions of Rule 419 apply to registration statements filed under the Securities Act by a blank check company, such as the Company. Rule 419 requires that a blank check company filing a registration statement deposit the securities being offered and proceeds of the offering into an escrow or trust account pending the execution of an agreement for an acquisition or merger.

Page 5 

In addition, an issuer is required to file a post-effective amendment to the registration statement upon the execution of an agreement for such acquisition or merger. The rule provides procedures for the release of the offering funds in conjunction with the post effective acquisition or merger. The obligations to file post-effective amendments are in addition to the obligations to file Forms 8-K to report for both the entry into a material definitive (non-ordinary course of business) agreement and the completion of the transaction. Rule 419 applies to both primary and re-sale or secondary offerings.

Within five (5) days of filing a post-effective amendment setting forth the proposed terms of an acquisition, the Company must notify each investor whose shares are in escrow. Each investor then has no fewer than 20 and no greater than 45 business days to notify the Company in writing if they elect to remain an investor. A failure to reply indicates that the person has elected to not remain an investor. As all investors are allotted this second opportunity to determine to remain an investor, acquisition agreements should be conditioned upon enough funds remaining in escrow to close the transaction.

Effecting a business combination 

Prospective investors in the Company's common stock will not have an opportunity to evaluate the specific merits or risks of any of the one or more business combinations that we may undertake A business combination may involve the acquisition of, or merger with, a company which needs to raise substantial additional capital by means of being a publicly trading company, while avoiding what it may deem to be adverse consequences of undertaking a public offering itself. These include time delays, significant expense, loss of voting control and compliance with various Federal and state securities laws. A business combination may involve a company which may be financially unstable or in its early stages of development or growth.

The Registrant has not identified a target business or target industry 

The Company's effort in identifying a prospective target business will not be limited to a particular industry and the Company may ultimately acquire a business in any industry Management deems appropriate. To date, the Company has not selected any target business on which to concentrate our search for a business combination. While the Company intends to focus on target businesses in the United States, it is not limited to U.S. entities and may consummate a business combination with a target business outside of the United States. Accordingly, there is no basis for investors in the Company's common stock to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target business or the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate. To the extent we effect a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its early stage of development or growth, including entities without established records of sales or earnings, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business and operations of financially unstable and early stage or potential emerging growth companies. In addition, to the extent that we effect a business combination with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. An extremely high level of risk frequently characterizes many industries which experience rapid growth. In addition, although the Company's Management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all significant risk factors.

&#160; Sources of target businesses 

Our Management anticipates that target business candidates will be brought to our attention from various unaffiliated sources, including securities broker-dealers, investment bankers, venture capitalists, bankers and other members of the financial community, who may present solicited or unsolicited proposals. Our Management may also bring to our attention target business candidates. While we do not presently anticipate engaging the services of professional firms that specialize in business acquisitions on any formal basis, we may engage these firms in the future, in which event we may pay a finder's fee or other compensation in connection with a business combination. In no event, however, will we pay Management any finder's fee or other compensation for services rendered to us prior to or in connection with the consummation of a business combination. 

Page 6 

&#160; Selection of a target business and structuring of a business combination 

Management owns 44.03% of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock and will have broad flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective target business. In evaluating a prospective target business, our Management will consider, among other factors, the following:

&#159; &#160; financial condition and results of operation of the target company; &#159; &#160; growth potential; &#159; &#160; experience and skill of Management and availability of additional personnel; &#159; &#160; capital requirements; &#159; &#160; competitive position; &#159; &#160; stage of development of the products, processes or services; &#159; &#160; degree of current or potential market acceptance of the products, processes or services; &#159; &#160; proprietary features and degree of intellectual property or other protection of the products, processes or services; &#159; &#160; regulatory environment of the industry; and &#159; &#160; costs associated with effecting the business combination. 

These criteria are not intended to be exhaustive. Any evaluation relating to the merits of a particular business combination will be based, to the extent relevant, on the above factors as well as other considerations deemed relevant by our Management in effecting a business combination consistent with our business objective. In evaluating a prospective target business, we will conduct a due diligence review which will encompass, among other things, meetings with incumbent Management and inspection of facilities, as well as review of financial and other information which will be made available to us. 

We will endeavor to structure a business combination so as to achieve the most favorable tax treatment to us, the target business and both companies' stockholders. However, there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service or applicable state tax authorities will necessarily agree with the tax treatment of any business combination we consummate. 

The time and costs required to select and evaluate a target business and to structure and complete the business combination cannot presently be ascertained with any degree of certainty. Any costs incurred with respect to the identification and evaluation of a prospective target business with which a business combination is not ultimately completed will result in a loss to us. 

&#160; Probable lack of business diversification 

While we may seek to effect business combinations with more than one target business, it is more probable that we will only have the ability to effect a single business combination, if at all. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be entirely dependent upon the future performance of a single business. Unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations with entities operating in multiple industries or multiple areas of a single industry, it is probable that we will lack the resources to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses. By consummating a business combination with only a single entity, our lack of diversification may:

&#159; &#160; subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, and &#159; &#160; result in our dependency upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. 

&#160; Limited ability to evaluate the target business' Management 

Although we intend to closely scrutinize the Management of a prospective target business when evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of the target business' Management will prove to be correct. In addition, we cannot assure you that the future Management will have the necessary skills, qualifications or abilities to manage a public company intending to embark on a program of business development. Furthermore, the future role of our director, if any, in the target business cannot presently be stated with any certainty. Page 7 

While it is possible that our director will remain associated in some capacity with us following a business combination, it is unlikely that he will devote his full efforts to our affairs subsequent to a business combination. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our director will have significant experience or knowledge relating to the operations of the particular target business. 

Following a business combination, we may seek to recruit additional managers to supplement the incumbent Management of the target business. We cannot assure you that we will have the ability to recruit additional managers, or that additional managers will have the requisite skills, knowledge or experience necessary to enhance the incumbent Management. 

&#160; Our auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern 

Our audited financial statements for the years ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, were prepared using the assumption that we will continue our operations as a going concern. Our independent accountants in their audit report have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our operations are dependent on our ability to raise sufficient capital or complete business combination as a result of which we become profitable. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. There is not enough cash on hand to fund our administrative expenses and operating expenses for the next twelve months. Therefore, we may be unable to continue operations in the future as a going concern. If we cannot continue as a viable entity, our stockholders may lose some or all of their investment in the Company's shares of common stock.

Competition 

In identifying, evaluating and selecting a target business, we expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience identifying and effecting business combinations, either directly or through affiliates. Many if not virtually most of these competitors possess far greater financial, human and other resources compared to our resources. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we may identify, our ability to compete in acquiring certain of the more desirable target businesses will be limited by our limited financial and human resources. Our inherent competitive limitations are expected by Management to give others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of a target business that we may identify and seek to pursue. Further, any of these limitations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. Our Management believes, however, that our status as a reporting public entity with potential access to the United States public equity markets may give us a competitive advantage over certain privately-held entities having a similar business objective in acquiring a desirable target business with growth potential on favorable terms. 

If we succeed in effecting a business combination, there will be, in all likelihood, intense competition from existing competitors of the business we acquire. In particular, certain industries which experience rapid growth frequently attract an increasingly larger number of competitors, including those with far greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources than the initial competitors in the industry in which we seek to operate. The degree of competition characterizing the industry of any prospective target business cannot presently be ascertained. We cannot assure you that, subsequent to a business combination, we will have the resources to compete effectively, especially to the extent that the target business is in a high-growth industry.

Employees 

Mr. Heiden, our CEO and CFO, is our sole executive officer. Mr. Heiden is not obligated to devote any specific number of hours per week and, in fact, intends to devote only as much time as he deem reasonably necessary to administer the Company's affairs until such time as a business combination is consummated. The amount of time he will devote in any time period will vary based on the availability of suitable target businesses to investigate. We do not intend to have any full-time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination.

Page 8 

Conflicts of Interest 

The Company's Management is not required to commit its full time to the Company's affairs. As a result, pursuing new business opportunities may require a longer period of time than if Management would devote full time to the Company's affairs. Management is not precluded from serving as an officer or director of any other entity that is engaged in business activities similar to those of the Registrant. Management has not identified and is not currently negotiating a new business opportunity for us. In the future, Management may become associated or affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those we intend to conduct. In such event, Management may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. In the event that the Company's Management has multiple business affiliations, our Management may have legal obligations to present certain business opportunities to multiple entities. In the event that a conflict of interest shall arise, Management will consider factors such as reporting status, availability of audited financial statements, current capitalization and the laws of jurisdictions. If several business opportunities or operating entities approach Management with respect to a business combination, Management will consider the foregoing factors as well as the preferences of the Management of the operating company. However, Management will act in what it believes will be in the best interests of the shareholders of the Registrant. The Registrant shall not enter into a transaction with a target business that is affiliated with Management.

