 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

The CurrencyShares &#174; British Pound Sterling Trust (the &#147;Trust&#148;) is a grantor trust that was formed on June 8, 2006. The shares began trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol &#147;FXB&#148; on June 26, 2006. The primary listing of the Shares was transferred to NYSE Arca, Inc. (&#147;NYSE Arca&#148;) on October 30, 2007. The Trust issues shares (the &#147;Shares&#148;) in blocks of 50,000 (a &#147;Basket&#148;) in exchange for deposits of British Pound Sterling and distributes British Pound Sterling in connection with the redemption of Baskets. 

The investment objective of the Trust is for the Shares to reflect the price in USD of British Pound Sterling plus accrued interest, if any, less the expenses of the Trust&#146;s operations. The Shares are intended to offer investors an opportunity to participate in the market for the British Pound Sterling through an investment in securities. The Shares are intended to provide institutional and retail investors with a simple, cost-effective means of gaining investment benefits similar to those of holding the British Pound Sterling. The Shares are bought and sold on NYSE Arca like any other exchange-listed security. The Shares are backed by the assets of the Trust, which does not hold or use derivative products. The Trust is a passive investment vehicle and does not have any officers, directors or employees. The Trust does not engage in any activities designed to obtain profit from, or ameliorate losses caused by, changes in the price of the British Pound Sterling. Investing in the Shares does not insulate the investor from certain risks, including price volatility. The value of the holdings of the Trust is reported on the Trust&#146;s website, www.currencyshares.com, each business day. 

The Trust 

General 

The Trust holds British Pound Sterling and, from time to time, issues Baskets in exchange for deposits of British Pound Sterling and distributes British Pound Sterling in connection with redemptions of Baskets. The British Pound Sterling held by the Trust will be sold only (1) if needed to pay Trust expenses, (2) in the event the Trust terminates and liquidates its assets or (3) as otherwise required by law or regulation. 

The Sponsor 

The Sponsor of the Trust generally oversees the performance of the Trustee and the Trust&#146;s principal service providers, but does not exercise day-to-day oversight over the Trustee or the Trust&#146;s service providers. The Sponsor is Guggenheim Specialized Products, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company. The Sponsor changed its name from Rydex Specialized Products LLC as of March 30, 2012. 

The Trust&#146;s only ordinary recurring expense is the Sponsor&#146;s fee. The Sponsor is responsible for payment of the following administrative and marketing expenses of the Trust: the Trustee&#146;s monthly fee, typical maintenance and transaction fees of the Depository, NYSE Arca listing fees, printing and mailing costs, audit fees and expenses, up to $100,000 per year in legal fees and expenses, and applicable license fees. The Sponsor also paid the costs of the Trust&#146;s organization, including the applicable SEC registration fees. The Sponsor&#146;s fee accrues daily at an annual nominal rate of 0.40% of the British Pound Sterling in the Trust (including all unpaid interest but excluding unpaid fees, each as accrued through the immediately preceding day). The Sponsor was paid $200,882 for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2015. 

The Trustee 

The Bank of New York Mellon, a banking corporation with trust powers organized under the laws of the State of New York, serves as the Trustee. The Trustee is responsible for the day-to-day administration of the Trust, including keeping the Trust&#146;s operational records. 

&#160;

Net Asset Value 

The Trustee calculates, and the Sponsor publishes, the Trust&#146;s Net Asset Value (&#147;NAV&#148;) each business day. To calculate the NAV, the Trustee adds to the amount of British Pounds Sterling in the Trust at the end of the preceding day accrued but unpaid interest, if any, British Pounds Sterling receivable under pending purchase orders and the value of other Trust assets, and subtracts the accrued but unpaid Sponsor&#146;s fee, British Pounds Sterling payable under pending redemption orders and other Trust expenses and liabilities, if any. The NAV is expressed in U.S. Dollars (&#147;USD&#148;) based on the British Pound Sterling/USD exchange rate as determined by The WM Company, at 4:00 PM (London time / London fixing) (the &#147;Closing Spot Rate&#148;) on each day that NYSE Arca is open for regular trading. If, on a particular evaluation day, the Closing Spot Rate has not been determined and announced by 6:00 PM (London time), then the most recent Closing Spot Rate is used to determine the NAV of the Trust unless the Trustee, in consultation with the Sponsor, determines that such price is inappropriate to use as the basis for the valuation. 

The Trustee also determines the NAV per Share, which equals the NAV of the Trust divided by the number of outstanding Shares. The NAV of the Trust and the NAV per Share are published by the Sponsor on each day that NYSE Arca is open for regular trading and are posted on the Trust&#146;s website, www.currencyshares.com. 

Depository and Deposit Accounts 

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., London Branch, is the Depository. The Depository maintains two deposit accounts for the Trust, a primary deposit account that may earn interest and a secondary deposit account that does not earn interest (collectively, the &#147;Deposit Accounts&#148;). Interest on the primary deposit account, if any, accrues daily and is paid monthly. If the Sponsor believes that the interest rate paid by the Depository is not competitive, the Sponsor&#146;s recourse is to remove the Depository by terminating the Deposit Account Agreement and closing the Deposit Accounts. The Depository is not paid a fee for its services to the Trust. The Depository may earn a &#147;spread&#148; or &#147;margin&#148; over the rate of interest it pays to the Trust on the British Pound Sterling deposit balances. 

The secondary deposit account is used to account for any interest that may be received and paid on creations and redemptions of Baskets. The secondary deposit account is also used to account for interest earned on the primary deposit account, if any, pay Trust expenses and distribute any excess interest to Shareholders on a monthly basis. In the event that the interest deposited exceeds the sum of the Sponsor&#146;s fee for the prior month plus other Trust expenses, if any, then the Trustee will direct that the excess be converted into USD at a prevailing market rate and the Trustee will distribute the USD as promptly as practicable to Shareholders on a pro-rata basis (in accordance with the number of Shares that they own). 

Trust Expenses 

In certain exceptional cases the Trust may pay expenses in addition to the Sponsor&#146;s fee. These exceptions include expenses not assumed by the Sponsor, expenses resulting from a negative interest rate, taxes and governmental charges, expenses and costs of any extraordinary services performed by the Trustee or the Sponsor on behalf of the Trust or action taken by the Trustee or the Sponsor to protect the Trust or the interests of Shareholders, indemnification of the Sponsor under the Depositary Trust Agreement, and legal expenses in excess of $100,000 per year. 

Termination 

The Trust will terminate upon the occurrence of any of the termination events listed in the Depositary Trust Agreement and will otherwise terminate on June 8, 2046. 

The Shares 

General 

Each Share represents a proportional interest, based on the total number of Shares outstanding, in the British Pound Sterling owned by the Trust, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, less accrued but unpaid expenses (both asset-based and non-asset based) of the Trust. All Shares are of the same class with equal rights and privileges. Each Share is transferable, is fully paid and non-assessable and entitles the holder to vote on the limited matters upon which Shareholders may vote under the Depositary Trust Agreement. 

&#160;

Limited Rights 

The Shares are not a traditional investment. They are dissimilar from the shares of a corporation operating a business enterprise, with management and a board of directors. Trust Shareholders do not have rights normally associated with owning shares of a business corporation, including, for example, the right to bring &#147;oppression&#148; or &#147;derivative&#148; actions. Shareholders&#146; have only those rights explicitly set forth in the Depositary Trust Agreement. The Shares do not entitle their holders to any conversion or pre-emptive rights or, except as described herein, any redemption or distribution rights. 

Voting and Approvals 

Shareholders have no voting rights under the Depositary Trust Agreement, except in limited circumstances. If the holders of at least 25% of the Shares outstanding determine that the Trustee is in material breach of its obligations under the Depositary Trust Agreement, they may provide written notice to the Trustee (or require the Sponsor to do so) specifying the default and requiring the Trustee to cure such default. If the Trustee fails to cure such breach within 30 days after receipt of such notice, the Sponsor, acting on behalf of the Shareholders, may remove the Trustee. The holders of at least 66-2/3% of the Shares outstanding may vote to remove the Trustee. The Trustee must terminate the Trust at the request of the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding Shares. 

Creation and Redemption of Shares 

The creation and redemption of Baskets requires the delivery to the Trust or the distribution by the Trust of the amount of British Pound Sterling represented by the Baskets being created or redeemed. This amount is based on the combined NAV per Share of the number of Shares included in the Baskets being created or redeemed, determined on the day the order to create or redeem Baskets is accepted by the Trustee. 

Only Authorized Participants may place orders to create and redeem Baskets. An Authorized Participant is a Depository Trust Company (&#147;DTC&#148;) participant that is a registered broker-dealer or other securities market participant, such as a bank or other financial institution that is not required to register as a broker-dealer to engage in securities transactions. 

Before initiating a creation or redemption order, an Authorized Participant must have entered into a Participant Agreement with the Sponsor and the Trustee. The Participant Agreement provides the procedures for the creation and redemption of Baskets and for the delivery of British Pound Sterling required for creations and redemptions. The Participant Agreements may be amended by the Trustee and the Sponsor. Authorized Participants pay a transaction fee of $500 to the Trustee for each order that they place to create or redeem one or more Baskets. In addition to the $500 transaction fee paid to the Trustee, Authorized Participants pay a variable fee to the Sponsor for creation orders and redemption orders of two or more Baskets to compensate the Sponsor for costs associated with the registration of Shares. The variable fee paid to the Sponsor by an Authorized Participant will not exceed $2,000 for each creation or redemption order, as set forth in the Participant Agreement. Authorized Participants who make deposits with the Trust in exchange for Baskets receive no fees, commissions or other form of compensation or inducement of any kind from either the Sponsor or the Trust. No Authorized Participant has any obligation or responsibility to the Sponsor or the Trust to effect any sale or resale of Shares. 

Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information 

The Sponsor, on behalf of the Trust, files quarterly and annual reports and other information with the SEC. The reports and other information can be accessed through the Trust&#146;s website at www.currencyshares.com. 

&#160;

