 Item 1. Description of Business 

History 

We are a Delaware corporation organized in 1980 under the name Arbor Energy Corporation. Our name change was effected in 1984.

Until September 2, 2003, we engaged in the production and wholesale distribution of wood products for home use, principally fireplace wood and garden stakes. Our products were packaged in and distributed from our facility in Little Marsh, Pennsylvania.

Substantially all of our products were sold to The Home Depot, Inc. for resale at its retail outlets. We informed Home Depot that we would no longer do business with that company due to increased difficulties in transacting business with Home Depot on a profitable basis. We stated to Home Depot that these difficulties included Home Depot&#146;s prohibition against price increases despite increases in our costs of production, a diminution in the Home Depot territories we were allowed to sell product to, and Home Depot&#146;s demands regarding returns of ordered products that we were unwilling to accede to for economic reasons. As a result, on September 2, 2003, we discontinued our wood products business.

We owned 102 acres of property in Little Marsh, Pennsylvania. There was a wood packaging facility located on the property. The facility consisted of an enclosed structure of 17,000 square feet, with a 7,000 foot outdoor overhang and another 10,000 foot outdoor overhang. Approximately 12 acres of the property were devoted to our work area and the remaining 90 acres was forest land. The real property was mortgaged to Mark Shefts, who was then an officer, director and major stockholder, in consideration of his providing us a credit line of $100,000. We closed on the sale of the property to an unaffiliated party on July 20, 2005 pursuant to a contract entered into in April 2005.

At present, we are seeking other business opportunities, but we may not be able to identify any such opportunities, and even if we are able to identify other opportunities, we may not be able to capitalize on them or they may not be profitable.

We currently have no employees. Mr. Brad Houtkin, one of our officers, devotes a small portion of his time to us.

Current Business Strategy 

The Company is seeking one or more potential business opportunities through merger or acquisition or the establishment of a new business. However, due to our limited working capital, it is likely that we will enter into only one business transaction.

We may also seek to acquire one or more majority and/or wholly owned equity positions in other companies through the direct purchase of stock. Such equity positions will be limited by Section 3(a)(3) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the &#147;1940 Act&#148;), in that we will not be permitted to own or propose to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of our total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis.

We may provide debt financing to companies in which we have taken (or intend to take) an equity position. Such financing would generally be made on an unsecured basis. In no event will we provide financing for or take equity positions in companies where the aggregate of such investments would cause us to be required to register under the 1940 Act.

Our present management may or may not become involved as management in the aforementioned business or subsidiary or may hire qualified but as yet unidentified management personnel. There can, however, be no assurance whatsoever that we will be able to acquire a business. A potential acquisition of a business may involve the acquisition of, or merger with, a company which does not need additional capital but which desires to establish a public trading market for its shares. A company that seeks a transaction with us in order to consolidate its operations through a merger, reorganization, asset acquisition, or some other form of combination may desire to do so to avoid what it may deem to be adverse consequences of itself undertaking a public offering. Factors considered may include time delays, significant expense, and loss of voting control. In connection with such acquisition, it is possible that an amount of stock constituting control of us would be purchased from us or our current officers, directors and stockholders resulting in substantial profits to such persons without similar profits being realized by other stockholders. Moreover, no assurance can be given with respect to the experience or qualifications of as yet unknown persons who may, in the future, manage our operations and affairs or any business or subsidiary acquired by us. In the event of a change in control of us and our Board of Directors, the payment of any dividends would be wholly dependent upon such persons. Furthermore, it is impossible as yet to determine what, if any, rights applicable state law may provide to our shareholders in any merger or reorganization.

We may establish or acquire a business and/or invest in one or more new and developing corporations, whether directly or by way of statutory merger, which we believe will offer significant long-term growth potential. In the case of an equity position, we will seek to acquire primarily a majority owned and wholly owned capital stock position in such corporation. We are not restricted to any particular industry and may engage in any line of business. Accordingly, we have broad discretion as to the type of businesses we may acquire and equity investments we may make.

We assume that any business we acquire or equity investment we make, whether directly or by way of statutory merger, will involve a business that is new and unseasoned, or a business that has been operating for a limited period of time and has a limited or unsuccessful record of revenues or earnings. Investments in start-up enterprises involve a high degree of risk of total loss of investment. Except in cases of a merger or other instances where stockholders&#146; approval may be required by applicable law, our stockholders will not have the opportunity to review the relative merits or weaknesses of any proposed business to be acquired or equity investment to be made and, accordingly, will have to rely upon the discretion of our management in selecting a business or investment.

We have identified certain general policies which we will consider in evaluating business acquisition candidates and investment possibilities. These policies are listed below. In no event will we provide financing or take equity positions in companies where the aggregate of such investments would cause us to be required to register under the 1940 Act.

1.

We will examine the products or services of a business being considered to determine whether a market exists for the products or services and whether the business can manufacture and/or market the products or produce the services at a competitive cost.

2.

We will invest in a corporation that we believe has a strong potential for growth. We will evaluate the corporation&#146;s business and determine the quality and experience of its management.

3.

We may invest in an operating corporation that has experienced increases in gross revenues which exceed industry averages. The market for the corporation&#146;s products will be evaluated by determining the relationship of size, growth potential and competitive factors in that corporation&#146;s industry. This may include the purchase of businesses which offer opportunities for consolidation.

4. 

We will also consider the following factors:

(a)

Special risks associated with the business and the industry,

(b)

Equity available to the business,

(c)

Capital requirements of the business,

(d)

Potential for profitability and

(e)

The effect of market and economic conditions and governmental policies on the business and its products.

It is unlikely that any one prospective corporation with which we may seek to enter a relationship will conform in all respects to the policies described above. Accordingly, this description is intended to serve only as a general guide for our projected investment activities. These policies are not fundamental policies and may be changed at any time by our Board of Directors.

We anticipate that we will be brought into contact with a prospective business acquisition or equity investment primarily through the efforts of its officers, directors and principal stockholders who in the course of their business activities frequently come into contact with corporations whose products, services or concepts may be subject to successful development and marketing. In such connection, we may pay a bonus to such officers, directors, principal stockholders or their affiliates. Any such payment would not be higher than that which would ordinarily be paid to a non-affiliated person.

We do not have any contracts or commitments with anyone or any firm with regard to these business activities. We also do not have any arrangements or understandings with respect to the acquisition of any business entity or the acquisition of any interest therein.

We may use independent consultants (who may agree to receive our stock in payment for their services in lieu of cash) to explore areas of, and to seek out, acquisition prospects. Such independent consultants would be expected to have such expertise or knowledge which would be of use to us in any investment decision. We have not engaged any independent consultants for the past three years.

At this time, we believe that any equity investments will be made in private transactions with privately owned corporations. Securities acquired in this manner are restricted from public sale unless they are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, or unless an exemption from registration is available.

Government Regulation 

We may be subject to government regulations promulgated by various local, state and Federal government agencies with regard to its proposed business. Additionally, if we purchase equity positions, we will be subject to various rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the various state securities commissions. We do not intend to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities or otherwise engaging in activities which would render us an &#147;investment company&#148; as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.

Our financing activities will be limited by Section 3(a)(3) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 in that the we will not be permitted to own or propose to acquire investment securities having a total value exceeding 40% of the value of our total assets (excluding government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. We are permitted under Section 3(a)(3) of the 1940 Act to own or propose to own securities of a majority owned subsidiary which is defined under Section 2(a)(24) of the 1940 Act to mean 50% or more of the outstanding securities of which are owned by us or our majority owned subsidiary. Notwithstanding Section 3(a)(3) of the 1940 Act, we would not be considered an investment company where we are engaged directly or indirectly through a wholly-owned subsidiary (which is defined to mean at least 95% ownership of the outstanding voting stock), in a business or businesses, other than that of investing, owning, holding or trading in securities.

In addition to the limitations imposed by the Investment Company Act of 1940 as mentioned above, there are a number of other provisions of the Federal securities laws which will affect our proposed investments.

Most, if not all, of the securities which we acquire as equity investments will be &#147;restricted securities&#148; within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 (&#147;Securities Act&#148;) and will not be permitted to be resold without compliance with the Securities Act. The registration of securities owned by us is likely to be a time consuming and expensive process, and we always bear the risk that, because of these delays, we will be unable to resell such securities, or that we will not be able to obtain an attractive price for the securities. It is highly improbable that we would be able to sell any of the securities we acquired.

Competition 

There are numerous companies seeking business opportunities which are larger, have more experience, and are better financed than we are. We may encounter intense competition from numerous other firms seeking new business opportunities. Any investments we make will entail a high degree of business and financial risk that may result in substantial losses to us.

Personnel 

Mr. Brad Houtkin, one of our officers, devotes a small portion of his time to our business.

