 Item 1. Business 

General 

NMI Holdings, Inc. (NMIH), a Delaware corporation incorporated in May 2011 provides private mortgage guaranty insurance (which we refer to as "mortgage insurance" or "MI") through its wholly owned insurance subsidiaries. Our primary insurance subsidiary, National Mortgage Insurance Corporation (NMIC), is a qualified MI provider on loans purchased by the GSEs and is licensed in all 50 states and D.C. to issue MI. Our reinsurance subsidiary, National Mortgage Reinsurance Inc One (Re One), solely provides reinsurance to NMIC on certain loans insured by NMIC, as described in Note 14, Regulatory Information - Reinsurance , below. NMIH's wholly owned subsidiary, NMI Services, Inc. (NMIS), began offering outsourced loan review services to mortgage loan originators in the fourth quarter of 2015. Our stock trades on the NASDAQ under the symbol "NMIH." 

MI protects mortgage lenders from all or a portion of default-related losses on residential mortgage loans made to home buyers who generally make down payments of less than 20% of the home's purchase price. By protecting lenders and investors from credit losses, we help facilitate the availability of mortgages to prospective, primarily first-time, U.S. home buyers, thus promoting homeownership while protecting lenders and investors against potential losses related to a borrower's default. MI also facilitates the sale of these mortgage loans in the secondary mortgage market, most of which are sold to the GSEs. We are one of seven companies in the U.S. who offer MI. Our business strategy is to continue to gain market share with our principal focus on writing insurance on high quality, low down payment residential mortgages in the U.S. 

We began writing business in April 2013. We had 964 &#32;master policy holders by the end of 2015 , compared to 735 &#32;at the end of 2014 . Of those master policy holders, 51.9% &#32;were delivering business in 2015 , compared to 37.7% &#32;delivering business in 2014 . We had total insurance-in-force ("IIF") of $19.1 billion &#32;and total risk-in-force ("RIF") of $3.7 billion &#32;as of December 31, 2015 , compared to total IIF of $8.1 billion and total RIF of $894.7 million &#32; as of December 31, 2014 . Of total IIF as of December 31, 2015, we had $14.8 billion &#32;of primary IIF and $4.2 billion &#32;of pool IIF, compared to $3.4 billion &#32;of primary IIF and $4.7 billion &#32;of pool IIF as of December 31, 2014 . As of December 31, 2015, our primary RIF was $3.6 billion &#32;compared to primary RIF of $801.6 million &#32;as of December 31, 2014 . Pool RIF was $93.1 million &#32;as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 . 

Overview of Residential Mortgage Finance and the Role of the Private MI Industry in the Current Operating Environment 

The modern MI industry was established in the late 1950s to provide a private market alternative to federal government insurance programs, principally the FHA. The industry mitigates mortgage credit risk within the residential mortgage lending system, supports increased levels of homeownership, offers liquidity and process efficiencies for lenders and provides consumers with lower-cost products and increased choice of mortgage and homeownership options. Residential MI protects mortgage lenders and investors when borrowers default, by reducing and, in some instances, eliminating the resulting credit loss to the insured institution. By mitigating losses resulting from borrower defaults, mortgage insurance supports the origination of "low down payment" mortgages, which are mortgages to borrowers who make down payments of less than 20% of the value of the homes. Mortgage insurance also may reduce the capital that financial institutions are required to hold against insured loans and facilitates the sale of low down payment mortgage loans in the secondary mortgage market, primarily to the GSEs. 

According to statistics published by the U.S. Federal Reserve, the U.S. residential mortgage market is one of the largest in the world, with over approximately $10 trillion of mortgage debt outstanding as of December 31, 2015. Mortgage origination, guaranty and securitization includes a range of private and government sponsored participants. Private industry participants include mortgage banks, mortgage brokers, commercial, regional and investment banks, savings institutions, credit unions, REITs, mortgage insurers and other financial institutions. Public participants include government agencies such as the FHA, VA and Ginnie Mae, and the GSEs, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The overall U.S. residential mortgage market encompasses both primary and secondary markets. The primary market consists of lenders that originate home loans to borrowers and includes loans made in connection with home purchases, which are referred to as purchase originations, and loans made to refinance existing mortgages, which are referred to as refinancing originations. The secondary market includes institutions that buy and sell mortgages in the form of whole loans or securitized assets, such as mortgage-backed securities. 

In 2016, we expect total residential mortgage originations to be in the range of $1.3 to 1.4 trillion, based on published forecasts from the Mortgage Bankers Association, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Assuming continuation of recent trends, we expect that approximately 35% to 40% of total residential mortgage originations will be low down payment mortgages requiring private or governmental mortgage insurance, driving a total expected insured market opportunity of approximately $500 billion. Of the $500 billion potential insured market, we believe approximately 35-40%, or approximately $200 billion, will be captured by private MI companies in 2016. 

Prior to the 2008 financial crisis, private mortgage insurers accounted for approximately half of the insured mortgage origination market. To stabilize disruption in housing markets, the Federal government significantly expanded its role in the mortgage insurance market during the 2008 financial crisis. Government agencies, including the FHA and the VA, insured increasing percentages of the market as incumbent private insurers came under significant financial stress. There is a strong public policy bias toward decreasing taxpayer exposure to the mortgage market, and the private MI industry has significantly recovered share from governmental insurers in recent years. Despite broad consensus favoring a greater role for private capital in the residential mortgage industry, governmental insurers' share of the MI market is expected to remain elevated relative to its historical average, particularly because governmental insurance will continue to be a viable option for certain low down payment and higher risk borrowers. We will continue to compete with these governmental insurers, but our primary focus is on growing our market share in the private MI market. 

Products and Services 

Mortgage Insurance Products 

NMIC's residential mortgage insurance products primarily provide first loss protection on low down payment loans originated by residential mortgage lenders and sold to the GSEs and, to a lesser extent, on low down payment loans held by portfolio lenders. NMIC offers the two principal types of MI coverage, "primary" and "pool" which we discuss further below. 

The GSEs are the principal purchasers of the mortgages insured by MI companies, primarily as a result of their governmental mandate to provide liquidity in the secondary mortgage market. Freddie Mac's and Fannie Mae's federal charters prohibit the GSEs from purchasing a low down payment loan without an authorized form of credit enhancement, including insurance from a qualified MI company, the mortgage seller's retention of at least a 10% participation in the loan or the seller's agreement to repurchase or replace the loan in the event of a default. Lenders who sell their loans to the GSEs must ensure that the MI coverage they purchase from us meets the GSEs' requirements. 

Primary Mortgage Insurance &#160; 

Primary mortgage insurance provides mortgage default protection on individual loans at specified coverage percentages. Primary insurance may be written on (i) a flow basis, in which loans are insured as loan originations occur in individual, loan-by-loan transactions, or (ii) an aggregated basis, in which each loan in a portfolio of loans is individually insured in a single transaction, typically after the loans have been originated. In general, our business as a whole is not seasonal in nature; although, the overall new business opportunity of the private MI market may be impacted by normal seasonal trends in originations of low down-payment mortgages. We currently offer both types of primary mortgage insurance products to our customers. In 2015, all of our new insurance written (NIW) consisted of primary insurance, and we currently expect that most of the insurance that we write in the future will continue to be primary. 

Our maximum obligation to an insured with respect to a claim is generally determined by multiplying the coverage percentage selected by the insured by the loss amount on a defaulted loan. The loss amount on an insured loan includes unpaid loan principal, delinquent interest and certain expenses associated with the default and subsequent foreclosure or sale of the property, all as specified in our master mortgage insurance policy (Master Policy). At the time of a claim, we will typically pay the coverage percentage of the loss amount, but have the option to (i) pay 100% of the loss amount and acquire title to the property, or (ii) if the property is sold prior to settlement of the claim, pay the insured's actual loss up to the maximum level of coverage. We expect that most of our primary insurance will be written on first-lien mortgage loans secured by owner occupied single-family homes, which are one-to-four family homes and condominiums. To a lesser extent, we may also write primary insurance on first-lien mortgages secured by non-owner occupied single-family homes, which are referred to in the home mortgage lending industry as investor loans, and on vacation or second homes. 

IIF is the unpaid principal balance of insured loans. RIF is the product of the coverage percentage multiplied by the unpaid principal balance. When a lender purchases our mortgage insurance, it selects a specific coverage level for an insured loan. For loans sold to the GSEs, the coverage percentage must comply with the requirements established by the particular GSE to which the loan is sold. For other loans, the lender makes the determination. We expect our risk across all policies written to approximate 25% of primary IIF but will vary on an individual loan basis between 6% and 35% coverage. In general, we structure our premium rates so that they increase as the coverage percentage increases, to account for relatively increased levels of risk that are present as the coverage percentages increase. Higher coverage percentages generally result in greater amounts paid per claim relative to policies with lower coverage percentages. 

Depending on the requirements of the loan instrument and the lender, the premium payments for primary MI coverage may either be paid by the borrower or the lender. Premium payments borne by the borrower are referred to as borrower paid mortgage insurance (BPMI). Premium payments made directly by the lender are referred to as lender paid mortgage insurance (LPMI). The lender may structure the loan transaction to recover LPMI premiums through an increase in the note rate on the mortgage or higher 

origination fees. In general, premium received on LPMI business is non-refundable. In either case, the payment of premium to us is the responsibility of the insured ( i.e. , the lender) and not the borrower. 

Our premium rates are based on rates and rating rules that we have filed with various state insurance departments. To establish these rates, we use pricing models that assess risk across a spectrum of variables, including coverage percentages, loan-to-value (LTV) ratios, loan and property attributes, and borrower risk characteristics. We generally cannot change premium rates after coverage is established. We have discretion under our rates and rating rules to offer discounts, and we may choose to offer such discounts for certain high quality business. 

In general, premiums are calculated as basis points of the unpaid principal balance of an insured loan. We have four premium plans: 

&#8226; 

single &#8212; the insured pays all premium up front at the time coverage is placed; 

&#8226; 

annual &#8212; the insured pays premium at the time coverage is placed for the first 12 months of coverage. The insured subsequently pays renewal premiums to maintain coverage for successive 12 month periods, with such renewals due prior to the expiration of the then applicable 12 month period; 

&#8226; 

monthly &#8212; the insured pays premium for the first month of coverage on the loan close date. We subsequently bill the insured each month for the next month's coverage; and 

&#8226; 

Monthly Advantage &#174; &#32;&#8212; when we receive notice of the loan close date, we bill the insured for the previous month of coverage (for coverage effective as of the loan close date) and each month thereafter; with this premium plan, the insured pays premium in arrears for the prior month of coverage. 

In general, we may not terminate MI coverage except when the insured fails to pay premium or for certain material violations of our Master Policy; although, as discussed below, the terms of our Master Policy restrict our rescission rights when certain criteria are met. For monthly or annual policies, MI coverage will continue at the option of the insured lender, by payment of renewal premiums at the renewal rate fixed when the loan was initially insured. Lenders may cancel insurance on a loan at any time at their option or because of mortgage repayment, which may be accelerated because a borrower refinances a mortgage or sells the property. The GSEs' guidelines generally provide that a borrower on a GSE-owned loan meeting certain conditions may require the mortgage servicer to cancel BPMI upon the borrower's request when the principal balance of the loan is 80% or less of the property's current value. The federal Homeowners Protection Act of 1998 (HOPA) also requires the automatic termination of BPMI on most loans when the LTV ratio (based upon the loan's amortization schedule) reaches 78%, and provides for cancellation of BPMI upon a borrower's request when the LTV ratio (based on the original value of the property) reaches 80%, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in the HOPA. In addition, some states impose their own notice and cancellation requirements on mortgage loan servicers. 

Master Policy and Independent Validation 

The terms of our primary mortgage insurance coverage are governed by our Master Policy and its related endorsements, which we issue to each approved lender with which we do business. The Master Policy sets forth the terms and conditions of our MI coverage, including, among others, coverage terms, premium payment obligations, exclusions or reductions in coverage, rescission and rescission relief provisions, policy administration requirements, conditions precedent to payment of a claim and loss payment procedures. 

Our Master Policy generally protects us from the risk of material misrepresentation and fraud in the origination of a loan by establishing the right to rescind coverage in such event. We believe our Master Policy sets forth clear and straightforward terms regarding our rescission rights, including limitations on our right to rescind coverage when certain conditions are met, which we refer to as "rescission relief." Our rescission relief provisions include several key components. First, subject to our independent validation of coverage eligibility of an insured loan, we agree in the Master Policy that we will not rescind or cancel coverage of such loan for material borrower misrepresentation or underwriting defects provided the borrower timely makes the first 12 monthly payments. The lender chooses whether or not to have insured loans independently validated by us in order to receive 12-month rescission relief. Second, if a borrower does not make 12 timely payments or we have not completed an independent validation on a loan, the loan is still eligible for rescission relief if the loan is current after 36 months following origination and the borrower has had no more than two 30-day delinquencies and no 60-day or greater delinquencies. Third, our rescission relief provisions include additional limitations on our ability to initiate an investigation of fraud or misrepresentation by a "First Party," defined in the Master Policy as our insured or any other party involved in the origination of an insured loan. 

We originate primary mortgage insurance coverage through our delegated and non-delegated underwriting programs, as discussed below in " Business &#32; - Underwriting ." A lender who desires 12-month rescission relief on its non-delegated loans is required to submit additional loan documents after a loan closes for our post-close independent validation. Lenders who do not 

submit all of the post-closing documents required to obtain 12-month rescission relief will receive 36-month rescission relief on their non-delegated loans. Delegated lenders who desire 12-month rescission relief on loans we insure must submit a full loan file (which contains all information and documentation required by the traditional underwriting process, as well as required post-closing documents) to us within 60 days of the loan's coverage effective date. We refer to this independent validation process as our "Delegated Assurance Review" or "DAR" process. Through DAR, we provide 12-month rescission relief on all loans that successfully pass through our post-close underwriting reviews of mortgage insurance decisions made by our customers under their delegated authority. Delegated lenders that do not desire 12-month rescission relief are not required to submit loan files to us through our DAR process, but instead receive 36-month rescission relief, and their loans are subject to our statistical quality control process. See Business - Enterprise Risk Management - Credit Risk - Underwriting, Servicing and Quality Control Audits , below. 

Pool Insurance 

Pool insurance is generally used as an additional "credit enhancement" or "risk-sharing" strategy for certain secondary market mortgage transactions. Pool insurance generally covers the excess of loss on a defaulted mortgage loan that exceeds the claim payment under the primary MI coverage, if such loan has primary coverage, as well as the total loss on a defaulted mortgage loan that did not have primary coverage. Pool insurance may have a stated aggregate loss limit for a pool of loans and may also have a deductible under which no losses are paid by the mortgage insurer until the insured's losses on the pool of loans exceed the deductible. 

In 2013, NMIC entered into a pool agreement with Fannie Mae, pursuant to which NMIC initially insured 21,921 loans with IIF of $5.2 billion (as of September 1, 2013). Fannie Mae pays monthly premiums for this transaction, which are recorded as written and earned in the month received. The agreement has a term of 10 years from September 1, 2013, the coverage effective date. The RIF to NMIC is $93.1 million , which represents the difference between a deductible payable by Fannie Mae on initial losses and a stop loss above which losses are borne by Fannie Mae. NMIC provides this same level of risk coverage over the term of the agreement. The capital we are required to maintain under the pool agreement is governed by the PMIERs. 

Loan Review Services 

In the fourth quarter of 2015, we began offering outsourced loan review services to mortgage loan originators on a limited basis through NMIS. As a part of these services, NMIS assesses whether data provided by the customer relating to a mortgage loan application complies with the customer's loan underwriting guidelines. These services are provided for loans that require MI, as well as for loans that do not require MI. Under the terms of our loan review agreements, NMIS agrees to indemnify the customer against losses incurred if it makes certain material loan review errors. The indemnification may be in the form of monetary or other remedies, subject to per loan and annual limitations. NMIS currently utilizes third party service providers to conduct loan review services. 

Customers 

Our sales strategy is focused on increasing market share from existing customers and attracting new mortgage originator customers in the U.S. We classify our customers into two primary categories, which we refer to as "National Accounts" and "Regional Accounts." We define National Accounts as the most significant residential mortgage originators as determined by volume of their own "retail" originations as well as volume of insured business they may acquire from other originators through their "correspondent channels." These National Accounts generally originate loans through their retail channels as well as purchase loans from "correspondents," other mortgage originators who we would generally classify as Regional Accounts, as described below. National Accounts may sell their loans to the GSEs or private label secondary markets or securitize the loans themselves. We service these customers with a specialized team of National Account sales professionals who have experience supporting and developing business from this segment. The Regional Accounts originate mortgage loans on a local or regional level throughout the country. Some of these Regional Accounts have origination platforms across multiple regions; however, their primary lending focus is local. They sell the majority of their originations to National Accounts, but Regional Accounts may also retain loans in their portfolios or sell portions of their production directly to the GSEs. Our nationwide and regional sales teams address the Regional Accounts segment of the market. 

The lenders in the combined residential mortgage market who control the MI decision are currently comprised of three groups: 

&#8226; 

Top 10, primarily National Accounts, representing approximately 19% of the MI market; 

&#8226; 

Next 30, a combination of National and Regional Accounts, representing approximately 17% of the MI market; and 

&#8226; 

Approximately 1,500, primarily Regional Accounts, representing the remainder of the MI market. 

As of December 31, 2015, we had active customer relationships with 22 of the top 40 lenders and expect to develop additional active customer relationships. We believe our most significant growth opportunity is within the large and fragmented market of Regional Accounts, which includes the top correspondent lenders. As of December 31, 2015, our active customer relationships give us access to over 83% of the correspondent origination market. We had 964 &#32;Master Policy holders as of December 31, 2015, compared to 735 &#32;as of December 31, 2014. Of those Master Policy holders, 500 &#32;or 51.9% &#32;were generating NIW in 2015 , compared to 277 or 37.7% , generating NIW in 2014 . 

The GSEs, as major purchasers of conventional mortgage loans in the U.S., are the primary beneficiaries of our mortgage insurance coverage. As a result, the private MI industry in the U.S. is highly dependent on the GSEs and is driven in large part by the requirements and practices of the GSEs. Revenues from our customers have been generated in the U.S. only. 

Customers exceeding 10% of consolidated revenues 

In 2015 , the premiums earned by NMIC from Quicken Loans Inc. &#32;exceeded 10% of our consolidated revenues. The loss of this customer could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Sales and Marketing and Competition 

Sales and Marketing &#32;&#32; 

Our sales and marketing efforts are designed to establish and maintain quality customer relationships through effective communication of our product offerings. Our sales force is strategically deployed throughout the U.S. to directly service our customers. We support our sales force and seek to increase acquisition of new customers and greater market share from existing customers by targeted product development, improving our brand awareness through advertising and marketing campaigns, training programs, website enhancements, mobile technology and sponsorship of industry and educational events . NMIC's product development and marketing department has primary responsibility for the creation and launch of our MI products. Our sales force consists of qualified mortgage professionals that generally have well-established relationships with industry leading lenders and significant experience in both MI and mortgage lending. 

Competition &#32; 

Our competition includes other private mortgage insurers, governmental agencies that sponsor government-backed mortgage insurance programs and other alternatives designed to eliminate the need for private mortgage insurance, such as piggy-back loans or risk sharing arrangements that do not include MI. The U.S. MI industry is highly competitive, and currently consists of seven active private mortgage insurers, including NMIC, Arch Mortgage Insurance Company, Essent Guaranty (Essent), Genworth Mortgage Insurance Corporation, Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Corporation (MGIC), Radian Guaranty Inc. (Radian) and United Guaranty Corporation. 

With seven private MI companies actively competing for business from the same residential mortgage originators, it is important that we continue to differentiate ourselves from the other companies who sell substantially similar products as ours. We compete with other private mortgage insurers based on our financial strength, underwriting guidelines, customer service (including speed of MI underwriting and decision making), ancillary products and services (including training and, on a limited basis, loan review services), information security, product features, pricing, operating efficiencies, customer relationships, name recognition, reputation, the strength of management teams and field organizations, ability to generate effective management and customer reports based on comprehensiveness of our databases covering insured loans, effective use of technology, innovation in the delivery and servicing of insurance products and ability to execute. 

We and other private mortgage insurers also compete directly with federal and state governmental and quasi-governmental agencies that sponsor government-backed mortgage insurance programs, principally the FHA and, to a lesser degree, the VA. Historically, these agencies' market share has ranged from 36-64% of low down payment residential mortgages that were subject to governmental and private mortgage insurance, but increased to approximately 85% in 2009 in the wake of the most recent housing crisis, according to statistics reported by Inside Mortgage Finance. Thereafter, the combined market share of governmental agencies has declined from its high, a trend that we believe has been positive for the MI industry; however, their share remains substantially above the low of approximately 23% in 2007. Although there has been broad policy consensus toward the need for private capital to play a larger role and government credit risk to be reduced in the U.S. housing finance system, recent action by the current administration has made it difficult to predict whether the combined market share of governmental agencies such as the FHA and VA will recede to historical levels. On January 26, 2015, the FHA reduced some of its single-family annual mortgage insurance premiums. To date, we have not experienced any significant impact from this premium reduction on our business. It is difficult to 

predict what, if any, material impact this premium reduction will have in the future as there are factors beyond premium rate that influence a lender's decision to choose private MI over FHA insurance, including among others, the FHA's loan eligibility requirements and loan size limits and the relative ease of use of private MI products compared to FHA products. We believe our pricing continues to be more attractive than the FHA's pricing for a substantial majority of borrowers with credit and loan characteristics similar to those whose loans we insure, and we have developed sales strategies designed to demonstrate to our customers where our products and rates are more favorable. 

In addition to competition from the FHA and the VA, we and other private mortgage insurers face competition from state-supported mortgage insurance funds in several states, including California and New York. From time to time, other state legislatures and agencies may consider expanding the authority of their state governments to insure residential mortgages. 

Underwriting 

With our underwriting solution, National MI TrueInsight SM , we originate primary mortgage insurance coverage through our delegated and non-delegated underwriting programs, discussed below. 

Non-Delegated Program &#32;&#32; 

To obtain mortgage insurance on a loan in our non-delegated channel, a lender submits an insurance application to us, along with documentation we require to support loan qualification for mortgage insurance. Our underwriters review the insurance application and all materials submitted to us and provide a decision to the lender prior to the loan closing. 

In addition to our non-delegated underwriter employees located at our corporate headquarters and remotely across the country, we have entered into agreements with third-party underwriting service providers (USPs) under which they underwrite the mortgage insurance decision on certain loans for us, consistent with our underwriting guidelines and subject to the terms of the outsourcing agreements. Our USPs share in the daily underwriting of mortgage insurance applications submitted to us, depending on the volume and with targeted assignments of particular loans to particular USPs, to ensure timely response-times to lenders. These USPs use AXIS, our insurance management system, and are trained to follow the same process outlined above that our own employees follow when they render an insurance decision. Any underwriting decisions requiring escalation or a second review will be referred to management. 

We have vendor management processes in place to manage the risk associated with outsourcing a component of our underwriting functions. In collaboration with the USP's management team, we monitor the USP's day-to-day underwriting of mortgage insurance decisions. We also review the qualifications of the USP's underwriters and provide system and guideline training to ensure the USP's underwriting philosophy is consistent with ours. We perform regular quality control reviews of each USP's performance, and our agreements with the USPs require them to give us access to the results of their internal quality control reviews. Underwriters with unacceptable performance will be carefully monitored with specific action plans, and our agreements provide for their timely replacement with 30 days' notice. 

Delegated Program &#32;&#32; 

Through our delegated program, once approved for delegated authority, certain lenders may bind our mortgage insurance coverage following their own underwriting reviews. We permit delegated underwriting with lenders that have a track record of originating quality mortgage loans and meet our delegated authority approval requirements. Delegated lenders are required to underwrite a mortgage insurance decision in accordance with our eligibility rules and approved underwriting guidelines and according to the terms set forth in our Master Policy and Delegated Underwriting Endorsement. In order to bind coverage, the lender must provide certain loan characteristics to us to demonstrate that the loan meets our threshold eligibility rules. If a loan does not meet such threshold eligibility rules, which are programmed into our AXIS system, the lender will not be able to bind coverage of such loan on a delegated basis. 

We utilize USPs with which we have outsourcing agreements to perform the majority of our post-close reviews of delegated decisions. If one of our USPs determines that a loan is ineligible for coverage, we will review the results to determine if we agree with our vendor before giving notice of cancellation of coverage to our insured. In addition to this review, we also perform routine quality control reviews of a statistically relevant sample of each USP's post-close reviews to help ensure that we are receiving the quality of underwriting that we expect from these providers. 

Underwriting and Risk Management Guidelines &#32; 

Our underwriting and risk management guidelines are based on what we believe to be the major factors that impact mortgage credit risk. Such factors include but are not limited to the following: 

&#8226; 

the borrower's credit strength, including the borrower's credit history, debt-to-income (DTI) ratios and cash reserves and the willingness of a borrower with sufficient resources to make mortgage payments when the mortgage balance exceeds the value of the home; 

&#8226; 

the loan product, which encompasses the LTV ratio, the type of loan instrument, including whether the instrument provides for fixed or variable payments and the amortization schedule, the type of property, the purpose of the loan and the interest rate; 

&#8226; 

origination practices of lenders; 

&#8226; 

the percentage coverage and size of insured loans; and 

&#8226; 

the condition of the economy, including housing values and employment, in the geographic area in which the property is located. 

We believe that, excluding other factors, claim incidence increases: 

&#8226; 

for loans with higher LTV ratios compared to loans with lower LTV ratios; 

&#8226; 

for loans with higher DTI ratios compared to lower DTI ratios; 

&#8226; 

for loans to borrowers with lower credit scores compared to loans to borrowers with higher credit scores; 

&#8226; 

for investor loans compared to owner-occupied loans; 

&#8226; 

during periods of economic contraction and housing price depreciation, including when these conditions may not be nationwide, compared to periods of economic expansion and housing price appreciation; 

&#8226; 

for adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs) when the reset interest rate significantly exceeds the interest rate set at loan origination; and 

&#8226; 

for cash out refinance loans compared to purchase or rate and term refinance loans. 

There may be other types of loan characteristics relating to the individual loan or borrower that also affect the risk potential for a loan. In addition, the presence of multiple higher-risk characteristics in a loan materially increases the likelihood of a default on such a loan unless there are offsetting characteristics to mitigate the risk. 

Enterprise Risk Management 

In accordance with established policies and procedures, we identify, assess, monitor and manage the following enterprise risks in our MI business: credit risk, market risk and operational risk. Management of these risks is an interdepartmental endeavor including specific operational responsibilities and ongoing senior management oversight. Our internal audit group, which reports to the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors (Board), provides independent ongoing assessments of our management of certain of these enterprise risks. In addition, the Risk Committee of our Board (Risk Committee) is responsible for oversight and review of information regarding the Company's enterprise risk management approach, including the significant policies, procedures and processes to manage and mitigate risks that pose a material threat to the viability of the Company. 

Credit Risk 

We protect financial institutions against credit losses resulting from borrower defaults on low down payment residential mortgage loans. Low down payment lending carries high credit risk because borrowers who encounter financial difficulties may have little equity (net of transaction costs), if any, in their homes, and are therefore less likely to keep their mortgage payments current or have the ability to sell their properties to avoid foreclosure. Our insured loan portfolio's credit risk profile is measured by credit score, LTV, DTI ratio, property type (e.g., single family home, condo or co-op), loan purpose (e.g., purchase or refinance), occupancy (e.g., owner-occupied) and other factors. Management measures credit risk through reporting by segmentation of these key credit risk drivers. Segmentation includes balances, RIF, revenue, delinquencies, losses (claims paid), persistency, reserves, and average claim size and severity. 

We employ the following methods to manage and mitigate credit risk in our insured loan portfolio: 

&#8226; Credit Policy, Underwriting Guidelines and Pricing; 

&#8226; Lender Approval, Monitoring and Management; 

&#8226; Underwriting, Servicing and Quality Control Audits; and 

&#8226; Management and Board Risk Committees. 

Credit Policy, Underwriting Guidelines and Pricing 

We manage our insurance portfolio's credit risk by the use of several loan eligibility matrices which describe the maximum LTV, minimum borrower credit score, maximum loan size, property type and occupancy status of loans that we will insure. Our loan eligibility matrices as well as all of our detailed underwriting guidelines are contained in our Underwriting Guideline Manual that is publicly available on our website. Our eligibility criteria and underwriting guidelines are designed to mitigate the layered risk inherent in a single insurance policy. "Layered risk" refers to the accumulation of borrower, loan risk and property risk. For example, we have higher credit score and lower maximum allowed LTV requirements for riskier property types, such as investor properties, compared to owner-occupied properties. We also manage our credit risk with our post-close independent validation processes in both our delegated and non-delegated channels, as described above under " Business - Underwriting. " Our pricing policies also help mitigate credit risk in the form of higher premium rates for loan features or borrower characteristics associated with historically higher default rates. 

Lender Approval, Monitoring and Management 

We maintain prudent lender approval guidelines, including requirements that a lender has experienced management, sound operations and underwriting controls, and appropriate escalation and exception policies and procedures. If a lender originates wholesale loans, we review how that lender manages and controls its authorized brokers. We monitor our lender customers by analyzing trends of many factors, primarily focusing on a lender's underwriting performance. We also assess our lenders' loan concentrations (e.g., LTVs, credit score, geography and loan purpose) and review their loan manufacturing processes. If we detect a trend that needs to be addressed, we attempt to identify the root cause of the issue and work to develop an agreed upon action plan with the lender, particularly for a lender that has delegated underwriting authority. 

Underwriting, Servicing and Quality Control Audits 

We have an underwriting quality control group that operates separately from the new business underwriting group to perform quality control reviews. We perform quality control audits of insured loans identified through random, high risk and targeted selection criteria. In addition, we review loans that default within 12 months of their origination. Our quality control review is primarily intended to assess the quality of the underwriting decision, including the accuracy and adequacy of the information and documentation used to reach that decision. We provide relevant reporting to operations management and to senior management. The findings from our quality control processes inform and shape certain risk processes such as underwriter authority delegation, lender monitoring and guideline management. 

Management and Board Risk Committees 

We have a risk committee, comprised of senior management to monitor our underwriting, pricing and risk management practices. This committee also monitors our portfolio concentrations and performance. We expect that this committee will continue to include a diverse mix of senior management to ensure that those responsible for execution are balanced with those responsible for oversight. New products, material changes to existing products or material changes to underwriting guidelines or pricing must be approved by the management risk committee prior to release. Our Board Risk Committee performs the same type of monitoring and oversight of risk management practices and portfolio performance that the management risk committee performs. 

Market Risk 

The risk profile of our business is also affected by the mortgage market and macroeconomic conditions. Key drivers include regulatory and/or tax changes affecting the economics of residential mortgage lending; regulatory changes impacting the relative attractiveness of MI to our customers; consumer attitudes about homeownership; and structural changes to the industry that impact the role of the federal government and the GSEs. 

We believe that the three primary market risks that we face are: 

&#8226; 

Declines in home values. A decline in home values typically makes it more difficult for borrowers to sell or refinance their homes, generally increasing the likelihood of a default followed by a claim if borrowers experience job losses or other life events which reduce their incomes or increase their expenses. In addition, a decline in home values typically increases the severity of any claim we may pay. 

&#8226; 

Reductions in income or increases in borrowers' expenses. Borrowers able to make only small down payments often have more difficulty weathering financial hardships caused by unemployment or income reductions, or life events involving illness or divorce, because they may not have large amounts of personal savings or available credit. Rising unemployment will increase the number of borrowers unable to remain current on their home mortgage and increase the number of new claims. 

&#8226; 

Higher interest rates. An increase in interest rates typically leads to higher monthly payments for borrowers with existing ARMs as well as for borrowers hoping to purchase a home, the latter of which may have the effect of reducing the pool of potential borrowers available to purchase homes. 

We mitigate market risk in our insurance portfolio mainly by employing portfolio concentration limits. We limit our exposure to product types that have experienced the most volatile performance in previous economic and housing market downturns. For example, we have portfolio limits for certain risks we wish to more closely control, including certain LTV loans, investor loans, cash-out refinances, certain state concentration levels and several other borrower or loan attributes 

Operational Risk 

Operational risks are inherent in our daily business activities. Key operational risks include: damage to physical assets, reliance on outside vendors, access to qualified underwriting resources, cyber security risks, including breaches of our system or other compromises resulting in unauthorized access to confidential, private and proprietary information, reliance on a complex information technology system and employee fraud or negligence. We manage operational risks through standard risk management practices such as hazard insurance policies, rigorous oversight of vendors, modern IT system redundancy, security and disaster recovery practices, internal controls and segregation of duties. The key controls to mitigate operational risks are established and maintained by management, overseen by the Board and monitored by our Internal Audit Department. 

Servicing 

Our Policy Servicing Department is responsible for various servicing activities related to Master Policy administration, premium billing and payment processing and certificate administration. With respect to servicing activities related to insured loans, our Policy Servicing Department primarily interfaces with our insureds' mortgage loan servicers. Some insureds retain the servicing rights and responsibilities for their own loan originations, while others transfer such rights and responsibilities to third party servicers. A servicer handles the day-to-day tasks of managing a lender's loan portfolio, including processing borrowers' loan payments, paying MI premiums to the MI company, responding to borrower inquiries, keeping track of principal and interest payments, managing escrow accounts and initiating loss mitigation and foreclosure activities. Our servicing specialists are assigned to our servicer customers to assist with day-to-day transactions and to assist in monitoring their insured portfolios. 

We have established policies and procedures that accommodate various methods for servicers to communicate loan and certificate information to us. Our Master Policy requires our insured lenders, typically through their servicers, to regularly provide us with reports regarding the statuses of their insured loans, including information on both current and delinquent loans. Generally, servicers submit reports to us on a monthly basis. We are currently integrated with the two largest third-party mortgage servicing systems, Black Knight Financial Services and FiServ. We are also integrated directly with certain lender customers who manage their own servicing systems. These parties' servicing platforms are used by the majority of our larger servicing accounts to exchange billing, payment and certificate level information on a daily or monthly basis. We also have our own external facing servicing website which may be utilized by servicers to process their servicing transactions. 

Defaults and Claims; Loss Mitigation 

Defaults and Claims &#32;&#32; 

The MI claim cycle begins with our receipt of a Notice of Default (NOD) for an insured loan from the loan servicer. Default is generally defined in our Master Policy as the failure by a borrower to pay when due a non-accelerated amount equal to the scheduled mortgage payment due under the terms of a loan or the failure by a borrower to pay all amounts due under a loan after the exercise of the due on sale clause of such loan. The Master Policy requires an insured to notify us of a default no later than 10 days after the borrower becomes three payments in default, although most lenders notify us sooner. We do not consider a loan to be in default for the purposes of reporting defaults and default rates and setting claim reserves until we receive notice from the servicer that a borrower has failed to pay two consecutive, regularly scheduled payments and is at least 60 days in default. The incidence of default is affected by a variety of factors, many of which are unforeseen, including borrower income, unemployment, divorce and illness. Defaults that are not cured result in a claim to us. A default may be cured by the borrower remitting all delinquent loan payments, paying off the loan in its entirety, a loan modification or by a sale of the property and satisfaction of all amounts due under the loan. 

Claims result from uncured defaults, approved sales to third parties prior to foreclosure for less than the amount of the debt (pre-foreclosure sales) and borrowers surrendering their property deeds to their lenders in lieu of lenders foreclosing (deeds-in-lieu). Whether a claim results from an uncured default depends, in large part, on the borrower's equity in the home at the time of default, the borrower's or the lender's ability to sell the home for an amount sufficient to satisfy all amounts due under the mortgage and the willingness and ability of the borrower and lender to enter into a loan modification that provides for a cure of the default. Various factors affect the frequency and amount of claims, including local housing prices, employment levels and interest rates. If a default is not cured and we receive a claim, any unearned premium collected from the date of default to the date of the claim payment is refunded to the insured along with the claim payment. 

Under the terms of our Master Policy, the insured lender is required to file a claim within 60 days after it has acquired title to the property securing the insured loan (typically through foreclosure) or when there has been an approved sale to a third party prior to foreclosure. In recent years, foreclosure time-lines have been extended as a result of the GSEs and recently enacted legislation requiring mortgage servicers to mitigate losses by offering forbearances and loan modifications prior to pursuing foreclosure on delinquent loans. 

When an insured lender has perfected a claim by delivering all documents and information we require to adjust a claim, within 60 days of the claim perfection date, we have the option of either (i) paying up to the coverage percentage specified for that loan, with the insured retaining title to the underlying property and receiving all proceeds from the eventual sale of the property, or (ii) paying 100% of the insured's loss on the loan in exchange for the insured's conveyance of good and marketable title to the property to us. If we exercise the latter option, we will market and sell the acquired property and retain all proceeds. 

Claim activity is not evenly spread throughout the coverage period of a book of primary business. Typically, relatively few claims are received during the first two years following issuance of coverage on a loan. This is typically followed by a period of rising claim activity which, based on industry experience, has historically reached its highest level three to six years after loan origination. Thereafter, the number of claims for a book year has historically declined at a gradual rate, although the rate of decline can be affected by conditions in the economy, including slowing home price appreciation or housing price depreciation and rising unemployment. Persistency of our book, the condition of the economy, including unemployment, and other factors can affect the pattern of claim activity. 

Loss Mitigation 

Before paying a claim, we will review the loan and servicing files to determine the appropriateness of the claim amount. Our Master Policy provides that we can reduce or deny a claim if the servicer did not comply with its obligations required by our policy, including the requirement to mitigate losses through reasonable loss mitigation efforts or, for example, diligently pursuing a foreclosure or bankruptcy relief in a timely manner. We call such reductions "curtailments." In addition, the claims submitted to us may include costs and expenses not covered by our insurance policies, such as mortgage insurance premiums, hazard insurance premiums for periods after the claim date and losses resulting from property damage that has not been repaired. Generally, we expect these other adjustments to reduce claim amounts by less than the amount of curtailments. 

Under our Master Policy, insureds, typically through their servicers, must obtain prior approval from us before agreeing to execute a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure, third-party pre-foreclosure sale or loan modification. Our right to pre-approve these transactions gives us the ability to mitigate actual or potential loss on an insured loan by ensuring that properties are being marketed and sold at reasonable values and that, in the appropriate case, borrowers are offered modified loan terms that are structured to help them sustain their mortgage payments. Proceeds from approved third-party sales occurring before we settle a claim may be factored into the claim settlement and can often mitigate the claim amount we may pay. In connection with our approval rights of a pre-foreclosure sale or 

deed-in-lieu of foreclosure transaction, our Master Policy also gives us the right to obtain a contribution from a borrower who has the appropriate financial capacity, either in the form of cash or a promissory note, to cover a portion of the claim. 

We have agreed with Fannie Mae that Fannie Mae and its approved servicers have the right to approve, consistent with the terms of the delegation agreement, pre-foreclosure sales, deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure and loan modifications for all Fannie Mae owned loans that we insure. Fannie Mae and its approved servicers will report all relevant information regarding these approvals to us and proceeds from borrower contributions will be shared between Fannie Mae and us on a pro rata basis, as defined in our Master Policy. 

Claim Reserves and Premium Deficiency Reserve 

A significant period of time typically elapses between the time a borrower defaults on a mortgage payment, which is the event triggering our establishment of a claim reserve, and the eventual payment of the claim related to the uncured default. To recognize the liability for unpaid claims related to outstanding reported defaults, or default inventory, we establish claim reserves in accordance with industry practice, representing the estimated percentage of defaults which may ultimately result in a claim, which is known as the claim rate, and the estimated severity of the claims which may arise from the defaults included in the default inventory. Claim severity is the ratio of the claim amount to the total RIF on an insured loan. The main determinants of claim severity are the size of the mortgage loan, the coverage percentage on the loan and local market conditions. 

We will also establish reserves to provide for the estimated costs of settling claims, general expenses of administering the claims settlement process, legal fees and other fees (claim adjustment expenses), and for claims and claim adjustment expenses from defaults that we estimate have occurred, but which have not yet been reported to us. We refer to the latter as incurred but not reported or "IBNR" reserves. Consistent with industry accounting practices, we do not establish claim or IBNR reserves for estimated potential defaults that have not occurred but that may occur in the future. For further discussion of our claim reserving policy and process, see Part II, Item 7, " Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates - Reserve for Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses ." 

The processes described above to calculate loss and IBNR reserves are applicable only to loans that have been in default at least 60 days. At the end of each fiscal quarter, we also perform an analysis on our entire portfolio of insured loans, including performing loans, to determine if we are required to establish a premium deficiency reserve. We would establish a premium deficiency reserve, if necessary, when the net present value of expected future claims and expenses exceeds the net present value of expected future premiums and existing reserves. The evaluation of premium deficiency requires significant judgment by management and depends upon many assumptions, including assumptions regarding future macroeconomic conditions. 

Reinsurance 

Certain states limit the amount of risk a mortgage insurer may retain on a single loan to 25% of the borrower's indebtedness and, as a result, the portion of such insurance in excess of 25% must be reinsured. NMIC uses reinsurance provided by Re One solely for purposes of compliance with statutory coverage limits. We may choose to purchase reinsurance coverage in the future to help manage certain risk exposures and as part of our capital management strategy. If we choose to use third-party reinsurance, we may enter into reinsurance arrangements as long as they meet the requirements of state insurance regulations and the PMIERs, including obtaining prior consent from the GSEs. 

Information Technology Systems and Intellectual Property 

As a participant in the mortgage lending and MI industries, we rely on e-commerce and other technologies to provide and expand our products and services. Customers require us to provide and service our products in a secure manner, either electronically via our internet website or through direct electronic data transmissions. We have invested in our infrastructure and technology through the design, development, integration and implementation of what we believe is an efficient, secure, scalable platform that supports our current business activities and enables significant future growth. We underwrite and service our MI portfolio within this proprietary insurance management platform, which we refer to as AXIS. 

Since the initial development of AXIS, we have continued to upgrade and enhance our systems and technical capabilities, including: 

&#8226; 

technology that enables our customers to transact business faster and easier, whether via a secure internet connection or through a secure system-to-system interface; 

&#8226; 

integrating our platform with third-party technology providers used by our customers in their loan origination process to order our mortgage insurance and in their servicing processes for servicing and maintaining mortgage insurance policies; 

&#8226; 

implementing advanced document and business process management software that focuses on improving our underwriting productivity and that may also be used to improve our quality assurance and loss management functions; and 

&#8226; 

launching our award-winning mobile applications, which enable customers to view and access information through mobile devices, including our premium rate calculators, guideline updates and other resources and information notices. In 2014, these mobile applications earned Web Marketing Association's MobileWebAward distinction for Best Financial Services Mobile Application, recognizing excellence in mobile web development. 

We utilize and develop technology to support future growth while realizing current operating efficiencies throughout our enterprise. We also realize operating efficiencies by outsourcing certain of our information technology functions. Our IT systems architecture strategy incorporates Cloud (systems connected via the Internet) and Software as a Service technology in a number of areas to provide scalability and flexibility. 

We employ and support the Mortgage Industry Standards Maintenance Organization (MISMO) standard. This is the standard data format used by the MI industry for data consistency throughout the origination process, which we believe streamlines the effort. In addition to using the MISMO standard for origination transactions, we also support mortgage industry data standards for servicing transactions, which enables efficient connectivity with leading service bureau providers and directly with mortgage servicing entities. As part of our underwriting process, we capture data from each mortgage insurance application, providing us with information for evaluating risk, back-testing expected performance and analyzing default patterns. 

Investment Portfolio 

Our investment portfolio and cash and cash equivalents are split between us and our insurance subsidiaries. In general, we retain the balance of our cash and investments at the holding company until needed to further capitalize our insurance subsidiaries. Our portfolio is diversified across corporate, government and taxable municipal securities of various durations &#32; to attempt to minimize the risk of loss resulting from over concentration of assets in specific sectors or securities. Diversification strategies are periodically reviewed. While our portfolio is managed day-to-day by a third-party investment management company, Wells Capital Management, Inc., we maintain overall control over investment decisions based on our investment policies. 

All securities in the portfolio must be U.S. dollar-denominated and have the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) '1' or '2' designation or investment grade rating by Moody's, Standard &#38; Poor's or Fitch at time of purchase. Our investment policies and strategies are subject to change depending upon regulatory, economic and market conditions and our existing or anticipated financial condition and operating requirements, including our tax position. 

Consistent with Wisconsin law, our investment policies emphasize preservation of capital, as well as total return. Based on our guidelines, our current investment portfolio is comprised entirely of cash and cash equivalents and fixed-income securities, all of which are investment grade and rated "BBB-" or higher. Our policy guidelines contain limits on the amount of credit exposure to any one issue, issuer and type of instrument. We expect to preserve the liquidity of our portfolio through diversification and investment in publicly traded securities. We maintain a level of liquidity commensurate with our perceived business outlook and the expected timing, direction and degree of changes in interest rates. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 243 &#32;full-time employees. None of our employees are parties to a collective bargaining agreement. We utilize a third-party professional employer organization to manage our payroll administration and related compliance requirements. 

Available Information 

Our principal office is located at 2100 Powell Street, 12th floor, Emeryville, CA 94608. Our main telephone number is (855) 530 - NMIC (6642), and our website address is www.nationalmi.com. Copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, a written copy of the Company's Business Conduct Policy, containing our code of ethics that is applicable to all of our directors, officers and employees, is also available on our website. Information contained or referenced on our website is not incorporated by reference into, and does not form a part of, this report. 

U.S. MORTGAGE INSURANCE REGULATION 

As discussed below, private MI companies operating in the U.S. are subject to comprehensive state and federal regulation and to significant oversight by the GSEs, the primary beneficiaries of our insurance coverage. NMIC and Re One are directly regulated by our domiciliary and primary regulator, the Wisconsin Office of the Commissioner of Insurance (Wisconsin OCI) and by state insurance departments in each state in which these companies are licensed. We are also significantly impacted and, in some cases, directly regulated by federal laws and regulations affecting the housing finance system. 

We believe that a strong, viable private MI market is a critical component of the U.S. housing finance system. We meet frequently with regulatory agencies, including our state insurance regulators and the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), the GSEs, our customers and other industry participants to promote the role and value of private mortgage insurance and exchange views on the U.S. housing finance system. We believe we have an open dialogue with the Wisconsin OCI and often share our views on current matters regarding the MI industry. We actively participate in industry discussions regarding potential changes to the MI regulatory environment. We intend to continue to promote legislative and regulatory policies that support a viable and competitive private MI industry and a well-functioning U.S. housing finance system. We are a member of U.S. Mortgage Insurers (USMI &#174; ), an organization formed to promote the use of private MI as a credit risk mitigant in the U.S. residential mortgage market. 

GSE Oversight 

The GSEs are the principal purchasers of mortgages insured by MI companies. As a result, the nature of the private MI industry in the U.S. is driven in large part by the requirements and practices of the GSEs, which include: 

&#8226; 

the PMIERs, including operational, business and remedial requirements and minimum capital levels applicable to GSE-qualified MI providers; 

&#8226; 

the underwriting standards that determine what loans are eligible for purchase by the GSEs, which can affect the quality of the risk insured by the mortgage insurer and the availability of mortgage loans; 

&#8226; 

the terms that the GSEs require to be included in MI policies for loans that they purchase; 

&#8226; 

the level of MI coverage, subject to the requirements of the GSEs' charters as to when MI is used as the required credit enhancement on low down payment mortgages; 

&#8226; 

the amount of loan level delivery fees (which result in higher costs to borrowers) that the GSEs assess on loans that require MI; and 

&#8226; 

the availability of different loan purchase programs from the GSEs that allow different levels of MI coverage. 

In January 2013, the GSEs approved NMIC as a qualified mortgage insurer (as defined in the PMIERs, an Approved Insurer ). ( Italicized &#32;terms have the same meaning that such terms have in the PMIERs, as described below.) As an Approved Insurer , NMIC is subject to ongoing compliance with the PMIERs. The PMIERs establish operational, business, remedial and financial requirements applicable to Approved Insurers . In the second quarter of 2015, the FHFA published final updated PMIERs that went into effect on December 31, 2015 (Effective Date) for existing, Approved Insurers . 

Under the PMIERs financial requirements, Approved Insurers &#32;must maintain available assets &#32;that equal or exceed minimum required assets , which is an amount equal to the greater of (i) $400 million or (ii) a total risk-based required asset amount . The risk-based required asset amount &#32;is a function of the risk profile of an Approved Insurer&#8217;s &#32;net RIF, calculated by applying on a loan-by-loan basis certain risk-based factors derived from tables set out in the PMIERs to the net RIF. The risk-based required asset amount &#32;for primary insurance is subject to a floor of 5.6% of total, performing, primary RIF, and the risk-based required asset amount &#32;for pool insurance considers both the factors in the tables and the &#32;net remaining stop loss &#32;for each pool insurance policy. The PMIERs financial requirements also increase the amount of available assets &#32;that must be held by an Approved Insurer &#32;for loans originated on or after January 1, 2016 that are insured under LPMI policies not subject to automatic termination under the HOPA. 

By March 1, 2016, each Approved Insurer &#32;must certify to the GSEs that it fully complies with the PMIERs as of the Effective Date. As of December 31, 2015, NMIC had sufficient assets to meet the PMIERs financial requirements and we expect to certify to the GSEs by March 1, 2016 that NMIC fully complies with the PMIERs. Going forward, by April 15th of each year, NMIC must certify it met all PMIERs requirements as of December 31st of the prior year. Moreover, NMIC has an ongoing obligation to immediately notify the GSEs in writing upon discovery of its failure to meet one or more of the PMIERs requirements. 

State Mortgage Insurance Regulation 

Certificates of Authority 

NMIC requires a certificate of authority, or insurance license, in each state or jurisdiction in which it issues insurance policies. NMIC is currently licensed in all 50 &#32;states and D.C. As conditions of obtaining licenses in certain states, NMIC is subject to ongoing notification and reporting requirements if we make material changes to its business, operations or management. 

State Insurance Laws 

As mandated by state insurance laws, MI companies are generally monoline companies restricted to writing only MI business. These regulations are principally designed for the protection of our insured policyholders rather than for the benefit of investors. Although their scope varies, state insurance laws generally grant broad supervisory powers to insurance regulatory officials to examine insurance companies and interpret and/or enforce rules or exercise discretion affecting almost every significant aspect of the insurance business. 

In general, state insurance regulation of our business relates to: 

&#8226; 

licenses to transact business; 

&#8226; 

policy forms; 

&#8226; 

premium rates; 

&#8226; 

insurable loans; 

&#8226; 

annual and quarterly reports on our financial condition; 

&#8226; 

the basis upon which assets and liabilities must be stated; 

&#8226; 

requirements regarding loss, unearned premium and contingency reserves; 

&#8226; 

minimum capital levels and adequacy ratios; 

&#8226; 

affiliate transactions; 

&#8226; 

reinsurance requirements; 

&#8226; 

limitations on the types of investment instruments which may be held in an investment portfolio; 

&#8226; 

the size of risks and limits on coverage of individual risks which may be insured; 

&#8226; 

special deposits of securities; 

&#8226; 

limits on dividends payable; 

&#8226; 

claims handling; and 

&#8226; 

conformance with the operating plan filed with each licensing state, subject to any updates to the plan. 

As an insurance holding company, we are registered with the Wisconsin OCI, NMIC and Re One's primary regulator, and must provide certain information to the Wisconsin OCI on an ongoing basis, including insurance holding company annual audited consolidated financial statements. We, as an insurance holding company, and each of our affiliates, are prohibited from engaging in certain transactions with our insurance subsidiaries without submission to, and in some instances, prior approval by the Wisconsin OCI. Like most states, Wisconsin regulates transactions between domestic insurance companies and their parents or affiliates. Under Wisconsin law, all transactions involving us, or an affiliate, and an insurance subsidiary, must conform to certain standards including that the transaction is "reasonable and fair" to the insurance subsidiary. Wisconsin law also provides that reports of certain transactions must be filed with the Wisconsin OCI at least 30 days before the transaction is entered into and that these transactions may be disapproved by the Wisconsin OCI within that period. 

Wisconsin's insurance regulations generally provide that no person may merge with or acquire control (which is defined as possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, by common management or otherwise) of us or our insurance subsidiaries unless the merger or transaction in which control is acquired has been approved by the Wisconsin OCI. Wisconsin law provides for a rebuttable presumption of control when a person owns or has the right to vote, directly or indirectly, more than 10% of the voting securities of a company. Pursuant to applicable Wisconsin regulations, voting securities include securities convertible into or evidencing the right to acquire securities with the right to vote. For purposes of determining whether control exists, the Wisconsin 

OCI may aggregate the direct or indirect ownership of us by entities under common control with one another. Accordingly, any investor that may be deemed to own 10% or more of our common stock or other securities that are considered to be voting securities, whether separately or through the aggregation of its ownership with that of its affiliates or other third parties whose holdings are required to be aggregated, should consult with its legal advisors to ensure that it complies with applicable requirements of Wisconsin law. In addition, the insurance regulations of certain states require prior notification to the state's insurance department before a person acquires control of an insurance company licensed in such state. An insurance company's licenses to conduct business in those states could be affected by any such change in control. As of the date of this report, we are aware of one stockholder that owns more than 10% of our shares of common stock. This stockholder filed a disclaimer of control with the Wisconsin OCI in connection therewith, which the Wisconsin OCI has not disapproved. 

Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to Wisconsin statutory requirements as to maintenance of policyholders' surplus and payment of dividends or distributions to shareholders. Wisconsin law prohibits our insurance subsidiaries from paying any dividend or making a distribution unless it is fair and reasonable to the insurance subsidiary. Under Wisconsin law, our insurance subsidiaries may not pay any dividend or make a distribution before providing at least 30 days' notice to the Wisconsin OCI, unless such dividend or distribution is no more than 15% larger than the dividend or distribution in the corresponding period in the previous year. To the extent that a dividend or distribution meets this exemption, and such dividend or distribution does not require our insurance subsidiaries to provide notice to the Wisconsin OCI, the maximum amount of dividends or distributions that the insurance subsidiaries may pay or make in any 12-month period without approval by the Wisconsin OCI is the lesser of (i) 10% of statutory policyholders' surplus as of the preceding calendar year end or (ii) adjusted statutory net income. Adjusted statutory net income is defined for this purpose to be the greater of the following: 

a. 

The net income of the insurer for the calendar year preceding the date of the dividend or distribution, minus realized capital gains for that calendar year; or 

b. 

The aggregate of the net income of the insurer for the 3 calendar years preceding the date of the dividend or distribution, minus realized capital gains for those calendar years and minus dividends paid or credited and distributions made within the first 2 of the preceding 3 calendar years. 

In addition to Wisconsin, other states may limit or restrict our insurance subsidiaries' ability to pay stockholder dividends. For example, California and New York prohibit MI companies licensed in such states from declaring dividends except from undivided profits remaining above the aggregate of their paid-in capital, paid-in surplus and contingency reserves. In addition, Florida requires MI companies to hold capital and surplus not less than the lesser of (i) 10% of its total liabilities, or (ii) $100 million. It is possible that Wisconsin will adopt revised statutory provisions or interpretations of existing statutory provisions that will be more or less restrictive than those described above or will otherwise take actions that may further restrict the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions or returns of capital. 

MI companies licensed in Wisconsin are required to establish a contingency loss reserve for purposes of statutory accounting, with annual contributions equal to the greater of (i) 50% of net earned premiums or (ii) the sum of the minimum policyholders' position (as described below), as described in the insurance regulations. These amounts cannot be withdrawn for a period of 10 years, except as permitted by insurance regulations. With prior approval from the Wisconsin OCI, an MI company may make early withdrawals from the contingency reserve when incurred losses exceed the greater of either (i) 35% of net premiums earned in a calendar year or (ii) 70% of the annual amount contributed to the contingency loss reserve. 

Under applicable Wisconsin law and the laws of 15 other states, an MI company must maintain a minimum amount of statutory capital relative to its RIF in order for the MI company to continue to write new business. These are typically referred to as "risk-to-capital requirements." While formulations of minimum capital may vary in certain jurisdictions, the most common measure applied allows for a maximum permitted risk-to-capital (RTC) ratio of 25:1. Wisconsin has formula-based limits that typically result in limits slightly higher than the 25:1 ratio. 

We compute our RTC ratio on a separate company statutory basis, as well as for our combined insurance operations. The RTC ratio is our net RIF divided by our statutory capital. Our net RIF includes both direct and assumed primary and pool RIF, less risk ceded and excluding risk on policies that are currently in default and for which loss reserves have been established. Wisconsin requires an MI company to maintain a "minimum policyholders' position" as calculated in accordance with the applicable regulations. Policyholders' position, which is also known as statutory capital, is generally the sum of statutory policyholders' surplus (which increases as a result of statutory net income and contributions and decreases as a result of statutory net loss and dividends paid), plus the statutory contingency reserve. Under statutory accounting rules, the contingency reserve is reported as a liability on the statutory balance sheet; however, for purposes of statutory capital and RTC ratio calculations, it is included as a capital component. 

Most states, including Wisconsin, have anti-inducement and anti-rebate laws applicable to MI companies, which prohibit MI companies from inducing lenders to enter into insurance contracts by offering benefits not specified in the policy, including 

rebates of insurance premiums. For example, Wisconsin prohibits MI companies from allowing any commission, fee, remuneration, or other compensation to be paid to, or received by, any insured lender, including any subsidiary or affiliate, officer, director, or employee of any insured, any member of their immediate family, any corporation, partnership, trust, trade association in which any insured is a member, or other entity in which any insured or any such officer, director, or employee or any member of their immediate family has a financial interest. 

MI premium rates are also subject to state regulation to protect policyholders against the adverse effects of excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory rates and to encourage competition in the insurance marketplace. Any increase in premium rates must be justified, generally on the basis of the insurer's loss experience, expenses and future trend analysis. The general mortgage default experience may also be considered. Premium rates are subject to review and approval by state regulators. 

State insurance receivership law, not federal bankruptcy law, would govern any insolvency or financially hazardous condition of our insurance subsidiaries. The Wisconsin OCI has substantial authority to issue orders or seek and control a state insurance receivership proceeding to address the insolvency or a financially hazardous condition of an insurance company that it regulates. Under Wisconsin law, the Wisconsin OCI has substantial flexibility to restructure an insurance company in a receivership proceeding. The Wisconsin OCI is obligated to optimize the value of an insolvent insurer's estate for the benefit of its policyholders, whose claims are prioritized relative to the claims of shareholders. 

Other U.S. Regulation 

Federal laws and regulations applicable to participants in the housing finance industry, including mortgage originators and servicers, purchasers of mortgage loans, such as the GSEs, and governmental insurers such as the FHA and VA, directly and indirectly impact private mortgage insurers. Changes in federal housing legislation may have significant effects on the demand for MI and, therefore, may materially affect our business. 

We are also impacted by federal regulation of residential mortgage transactions. Mortgage origination and servicing transactions are subject to compliance with various federal and state consumer protection laws, including the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 (RESPA), the Truth in Lending Act (TILA), the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA), the Fair Housing Act, the HOPA, the Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970 (FCRA), the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (GLBA) and others. Among other things, these laws and their implementing regulations prohibit payments for referrals of settlement service business, require fairness and non-discrimination in granting or facilitating the granting of credit and insurance, govern the circumstances under which companies may obtain and use consumer credit information, establish standards for cancellation of BPMI, define the manner in which companies may pursue collection activities, require disclosures of the cost of credit and provide for other consumer protections. 

Housing Finance Reform 

The Federal government currently plays a dominant role in the U.S. housing finance system through the GSEs and the FHA, VA and Ginnie Mae. There is broad policy consensus toward the need for private capital to play a larger role and government credit risk to be reduced. However, to date there has been a lack of consensus with regard to the specific changes necessary to return a larger role for private capital and how small the eventual role of government should become. On September 6, 2008, the FHFA used its authorities to place the GSEs into conservatorship. As the GSEs' conservator, the FHFA has the authority to control and direct the GSEs' operations, and the FHFA's policy objectives can result in changes to the GSEs' requirements and practices. With the GSEs in their 7th year of conservatorship, there has been ongoing debate over the future role and purpose of the GSEs in the U.S. housing market. Since 2011, there have been numerous legislative proposals intended to incrementally scale back or eliminate the GSEs (such as a statutory mandate for the GSEs to transfer mortgage credit risk to the private sector) or to completely reform the housing finance system. Congress, however, has not enacted any legislation to date. Passage and timing of comprehensive GSE reform legislation or incremental change is uncertain, making the actual impact on us and our industry difficult to predict. Such changes, if they come to pass, could have a significant impact on our business. 

FHA Reform 

We compete with the single-family mortgage insurance programs of the FHA, which is part of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The FHA's role in the mortgage insurance industry is significantly dependent upon regulatory developments. During the most recent housing downturn, the FHA began to capture an increasing share of the high-LTV market, which has not receded to the lower levels experienced prior to the financial crisis. Since 2012, there have been several legislative proposals intended to reform the FHA; however, no legislation has been enacted to date. Although there has been broad policy consensus toward the need for private capital to play a larger role and government credit risk to be reduced in the U.S. housing finance system, in 2015, the FHA reduced some of its annual mortgage insurance premiums by 50 basis points, which has had the effect of maintaining the FHA's elevated market share and continuing the increased role of government in the combined mortgage 

insurance market. Each year, FHA is required to perform an actuarial projection on its insurance portfolio and report the results to Congress. On November 16, 2015, HUD made a report to Congress that the FHA's Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund's (MMIF) net worth improved significantly and is now $23.8 billion. In addition, HUD reported that the MMIF's capital ratio improved to 2.07 percent and exceeds the required capital reserve ratio of 2%. With the improvement to the MMIF, it remains uncertain whether FHA will unilaterally lower its mortgage insurance premiums again, make changes to the current non-cancellation of premiums, or whether Congress will continue to consider legislation to reform the FHA. The prospects for unilateral FHA action on premium or passage of FHA reform legislation in either the House or Senate, and how differences in proposed reforms between the House and Senate might be resolved in any final legislation, remain uncertain. 

The Dodd-Frank Act 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act) amended certain provisions of TILA, RESPA and other statutes that have had a significant impact on our business and the residential mortgage market. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), a Federal agency created by the Dodd-Frank Act, is charged with implementation and enforcement of these provisions. In 2013, the CFPB published its final Ability to Repay (ATR) Rule, which went into effect in January 2014. In February 2015, a rule adopted by various federal agencies defining a Qualified Residential Mortgage (QRM) went into effect. 

Ability-to-Repay Rule 

The Dodd-Frank Act ATR mortgage provisions govern the obligation of lenders to determine the borrower's ability to pay when originating a mortgage loan covered by the rule. The ATR rule went into effect on January 10, 2014. A subset of mortgages within the ATR rule are known as "qualified mortgages" (QM). For a mortgage loan to be a QM, the rule first prohibits certain loan features, such as negative amortization, points and fees in excess of 3% of the loan amount, and terms exceeding 30 years. The rule promulgated by the CFPB also establishes underwriting criteria for QMs including that a borrower must have a total DTI ratio of less than or equal to 43%. The ATR rule provides that a covered first mortgage loan meeting the QM definition bearing an annual percentage rate no greater than 1.5% plus a prevailing market rate is regarded as complying with ATR requirements, while if a covered first mortgage loan bears an annual percentage rate of greater than 1.5% plus a prevailing market rate, it will carry a rebuttable presumption of compliance with the ATR rule. QMs under the rule benefit from a statutory presumption of compliance with the ATR rule, thus potentially mitigating the risk of the liability of the creditor and assignees of the loan under TILA. 

The rule also provides a temporary category of QMs that have more flexible underwriting requirements so long as they satisfy the general product feature requirements of QMs and so long as they meet the underwriting requirements of the GSEs. The temporary category of QMs that meet the underwriting requirements of the GSEs will phase out upon the earlier to occur of the end of conservatorship or receivership of the GSEs or January 10, 2021. We, along with other industry participants, have observed that the significant majority of covered loans made after the effective date of the CFPB's ATR rule have been QMs. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also gave statutory authority to HUD, the VA, U.S. Department of Agriculture and Rural Housing Service to develop their own definitions of &#8220;QM.&#8221; In December 2013, HUD developed its own definition of QM to govern loans eligible for FHA insurance that was less restrictive on certain underwriting requirements than that which governs loans for which the CFPB&#8217;s ATR rule governs. The other agencies have not taken such action to date. To the extent lenders find that the HUD definition of QM is more favorable to certain segments of their borrowers, our business may be negatively impacted. 

We expect that most lenders will continue to be reluctant to make loans that do not qualify as QMs (either under the rules' specific underwriting guidelines, GSE underwriting guidelines or the HUD definition of a QM) because absent full compliance with the ATR rule, such loans will not be entitled to a "safe-harbor" presumption of compliance with the ability-to-pay requirements. 

The ATR rule may impact the mortgage insurance industry in several ways. First, the ATR rule has given rise to a subset of borrowers who cannot meet the regulatory QM standards, thus reducing the size of the mortgage market tied to such borrowers. Second, under the ATR rule, if the lender requires the borrower to purchase MI payable monthly, then the MI premiums are included in monthly mortgage costs in determining the borrower's ability to repay the loan. To date, the full impact of the ATR rule on demand for MI because of inclusion of monthly MI premiums in the borrower's monthly payment is not yet known. 

Third, under the ATR rule, mortgage insurance premiums that are payable at or prior to consummation of the loan are includible in points and fees for purposes of determining QM status unless, and to the extent that, such up-front premiums (UFP) are (i) less than or equal to the UFP charged by the FHA and &#32;(ii) are automatically refundable on a pro rata &#32;basis upon satisfaction of the loan. (The FHA currently charges UFP of 1.75% on all residential mortgage loans, but it has the authority to change its UFP from time to time.) As inclusion of MI premiums towards the 3% cap will reduce the capacity for other points and fees in covered transactions, mortgage originators will be less likely to purchase single premium BPMI products to the extent that the associated 

premiums are deemed to be points and fees. In general, LPMI premiums are not counted in the consideration of the borrower's monthly payment or in the 3% points and fees determination. 

Qualified Residential Mortgage Rule 

The Dodd-Frank Act generally provides that an issuer of an asset-backed security or a person who organizes and initiates an asset-backed transaction (a securitizer) must retain at least 5% of the risk associated with securitized mortgage loans. This risk retention requirement does not apply to mortgage loans that are QRMs or that are insured by the FHA or another federal agency. By exempting QRMs from the risk-retention requirement, the cost of securitizing these mortgages would be reduced, thus providing a market incentive for the origination of loans that are exempt from the risk-retention requirement. 

The Dodd-Frank Act required certain federal regulators to promulgate regulations providing for minimum credit risk-retention requirements in securitizations of residential mortgage loans that do not meet the definition of QRM. Congress directed these regulators to define QRM no broader than the definition of QM, which is discussed above. On October 24, 2014, the agencies issued the final QRM rule, with an effective date of February 23, 2015. The QRM rule provides for the required risk retention of 5%, and as directed by Congress, excludes QM from the risk retention requirements. In addition, the rule excludes from the risk retention rule mortgage-backed securities issued by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac as a sponsor, during the duration of the GSEs' conservatorships, or by any limited-life regulatory entity succeeding to either GSE. To benefit from the exemption from risk retention, the GSEs in conservatorship and/or any limited life regulatory entity, as the sponsors, must fully guarantee the timely payment of principal and interest on all mortgage-backed securities issued. 

We, and the industry, continue to evaluate the final QRM rule and its impact, if any, on the MI industry. The potential impact depends on, among other things, the mortgage finance market's reaction to the final rule on and after the rule's effective date, including whether the final rule will affect the size of the high-LTV mortgage market and the extent to which the GSEs' mortgage purchase and securitization activities become a smaller portion of the overall market and securitizations subject to the risk retention requirements and the QRM exemption become a larger part of the mortgage market. 

Basel III 

The Basel Capital Accord, as updated, sets out international benchmarks for assessing banks' capital adequacy requirements, which, among other factors, governs the capital treatment of MI purchased and held on balance sheet by domestic and international banks in respect of their residential mortgage loan origination and securitization activities. In July 2013, U.S. banking regulators promulgated regulations to implement significant elements of the Basel framework, which we refer to as Basel III. The phase in period for U.S. banks to implement the Basel III regulations is for a duration of five years, which started on January 2, 2014. 

Under the "Standardized Approach," Basel III's current capital rules assign a 50% or 100% risk weight to loans secured by one-to-four-family residential properties (residential mortgage exposures). Generally, residential mortgage exposures that are prudently underwritten and that are performing according to their original terms receive a 50% risk weight, while all other residential mortgage exposures are assigned a 100% risk weight. The banking regulators clarified in a set of frequently asked questions issued in March 2015 that LTV ratios can account for private MI in determining whether a loan is made in accordance with prudent underwriting standards for purposes of receiving a 50% risk weight. A mortgage exposure guaranteed by the federal government through the FHA or VA will have a risk weight of 20%. 

In December 2014, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee) issued a proposal for further revisions to Basel III's Standardized Approach for credit risk. The proposal sets forth proposed adjustments to the risk weights for residential mortgage exposures that take into account LTV and the borrower's ability to service a mortgage as a proxy for a debt service coverage ratio. The proposed LTV ratio did not take into consideration any credit enhancement, including private MI. Comments closed on the 2014 proposal in March 2015, and in December 2015, the Basel Committee released a second proposal that retained the LTV provisions of the initial draft, but not the debt servicing coverage ratios. The 2015 proposal remains open for comment until March 11, 2016. 

We believe the existing U.S. implementation of the Basel III capital framework supports continued use of private MI by portfolio lenders as a risk and capital management tool; however, with the ongoing implementation of Basel III and the continued evolution of the Basel framework, it is difficult to predict the impact, if any, on the MI industry and the ultimate form of any potential future modifications to the regulations by federal banking regulators. 

Mortgage Servicing Rules 

New residential mortgage servicing rules under RESPA and TILA, promulgated by the CFPB, went into effect in 2014. These rules included new or enhanced servicer requirements for handling escrow accounts, responding to borrower assertions of 

error and inquiries from borrowers, special handling of loans that are in default and loss mitigation when borrowers default, along with other provisions. A provision of the required loss mitigation procedures prohibits the servicer from commencing foreclosure until 120 days after the borrower's delinquency. Violation of the loss mitigation rules, which mandate special notices, handling and processing procedures (with deadlines) based on borrower submissions, may subject the servicer to private rights of action under consumer protection laws. Such actions or threats of such actions could cause delays in and increase costs and expenses associated with default servicing, including foreclosure. As to servicing of delinquent mortgage loans covered by our insurance policies, these rules could contribute to delays in and increased costs associated with foreclosure proceedings and have an adverse impact on the cost and resolution of claims. The CFPB is currently engaged in a rulemaking process to amend the mortgage servicing rules, which amendments, if adopted, could increase the burden on servicers. 

Homeowners Protection Act of 1998 

HOPA provides for the automatic termination, or cancellation upon a borrower's request, of BPMI, as defined in HOPA, upon satisfaction of certain conditions. HOPA requires that lenders give borrowers certain notices with regard to the automatic termination or cancellation of BPMI. These provisions apply to BPMI for purchase money, refinance and construction loans secured by the borrower's principal dwelling. FHA and VA loans are not covered by HOPA. Under HOPA, automatic termination of BPMI would generally occur when the mortgage is first scheduled to reach an LTV of 78% of the home's original value, assuming that the borrower is current on the required mortgage payments. A borrower who has a "good payment history," as defined by HOPA, may generally request cancellation of BPMI when the LTV is first scheduled to reach 80% of the home's original value or when actual payments reduce the loan balance to 80% of the home's original value, whichever occurs earlier. If BPMI coverage is not canceled at the borrower's request or by the automatic termination provision, the mortgage servicer must terminate such BPMI coverage by the first day of the month following the date that is the midpoint of the loan's amortization, assuming the borrower is current on the required mortgage payments. 

Section 8 of RESPA 

Section 8 of RESPA will apply to most residential mortgages insured by us. Subject to limited exceptions, Section 8 of RESPA prohibits persons from giving or accepting anything of value pursuant to an agreement or understanding to refer a "settlement service." MI generally may be considered to be a "settlement service" for purposes of Section 8 of RESPA under applicable regulations. Section 8 of RESPA affects how we structure ancillary services that we may provide to our customers, if any, including loan review services, risk-share arrangements and customer training programs. RESPA authorizes the CFPB and other regulators to bring civil enforcement actions and also provides for criminal penalties and private rights of action. The CFPB has brought a number of enforcement actions under Section 8 of RESPA, including settlements with several mortgage insurers. One CFPB enforcement action against a mortgage originator for alleged kickbacks received from mortgage insurers, in which the CFPB is demanding that the mortgage originator pay approximately $109 million in disgorgement, is currently pending before the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. That court's ruling may have an impact on future CFPB RESPA enforcement activity in this area. The CFPB's enforcement of Section 8 of RESPA presents regulatory risk for many providers of "settlement services," including mortgage insurers. 

TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosures 

In October 2015, the TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosures (TRID) rule issued by the CFPB came into effect. The TRID rule mandates that a new series of disclosures be provided to consumers in connection with the origination of most types of residential mortgage loans. Certain mortgage originators and other industry service providers have reported difficulties implementing this new disclosure regime. These difficulties may result in delays in closing loans, as well as possible liability for mortgage originators and purchasers. Consequently, until the industry fully adapts to the TRID rule, we believe there may be a short-term negative effects on the residential mortgage market, which may in turn impact the market for mortgage insurance. 

Mortgage Insurance Tax Deduction 

In 2006, Congress enacted on a temporary basis the private mortgage insurance tax deduction, which expired at the end of 2011. Each year since the deduction initially expired in 2011, Congress has enacted legislation to temporarily extend the deduction, with the most recent extension occurring in December 2015, to cover the 2015 and 2016 tax years, from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2016. Congress has periodically considered proposed legislation that would make the private mortgage insurance tax deduction permanent, but to date has not enacted any such legislation. We cannot predict whether the tax deduction will be made permanent and if not, whether it will be further extended following its expiration on December 31, 2016. 

SAFE Act 

The federal Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act (SAFE Act), enacted by Congress in 2008, establishes minimum standards for the licensing and registration of state-licensed mortgage loan originators. The SAFE Act also requires the establishment of a nationwide mortgage licensing system and registry for the residential mortgage industry and its employees. As part of this licensing and registration process, loan originators who are employees of certain lending institutions must generally be licensed under the SAFE Act guidelines enacted by each state in which they engage in loan originator activities and registered with the registry. The CFPB administers and enforces the SAFE Act. Employees of NMIC are not required to be licensed and/or registered under the SAFE Act as NMIC does not originate mortgage loans. NMIS currently provides loan review services through third party service providers, which have represented to NMIS that they comply with SAFE Act requirements in all applicable jurisdictions. 

Privacy and Information Security 

We provide mortgage insurance products and services to financial institutions with which we have business relationships. In the normal course of providing our products and services, we may receive non-public personal information regarding such financial institutions' customers. The GLBA and related state and federal regulations implementing its privacy and safeguarding provisions impose privacy and information security requirements on financial institutions, including obligations to protect and safeguard consumers' non-public personal information. GLBA and its implementing regulations are enforced by state insurance regulators and state attorneys general, and by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the CFPB. In addition, many states have enacted privacy and data security laws which impose compliance obligations beyond GLBA, including obligations to protect social security numbers and provide notification if a security breach results in a reasonable belief that unauthorized persons may have obtained access to consumer non-public personal information. We have adopted certain risk management and security practices designed to facilitate our compliance with these federal and state privacy and information security laws. 

Fair Credit Reporting Act 

FCRA imposes restrictions on the permissible use of credit report information. The CFPB and FTC each have authority to enforce the FCRA. FCRA has been interpreted by some FTC staff and Federal courts to require mortgage insurance companies to provide "adverse action" notices to consumers if an application for mortgage insurance is declined or offered at higher than the best available rate for the program applied for on the basis of a review of the consumer's credit. We provide such notices when required. 

Anti-Discrimination Laws 

ECOA requires creditors and insurers to handle applications for credit and for insurance in accordance with specified requirements and prohibits discrimination in lending or insurance based on prohibited factors such as gender, race, ethnicity, age and familial status. The Fair Housing Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, gender and other prohibited bases in connection with housing-secured credit transactions. 

Implications of and Elections Under the JOBS Act 

As a company that had gross revenues of less than $1 billion during its last fiscal year, we are an "emerging growth company," as defined in the JOBS Act (an EGC). We will retain that status until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenues of $1,000,000,000 (as indexed for inflation in the manner set forth in the JOBS Act) or more; (ii) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of the first sale of our common stock pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act; (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous 3-year period, issued more than $1,000,000,000 in non-convertible debt; or (iv) the date on which we are deemed to be a "large accelerated filer," as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act or any successor thereto, including the requirement that an issuer have an aggregate worldwide market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of $700 million or more, as of the last business day of the most recently completed second fiscal quarter. As of June 30, 2015, the calculated aggregate market value of common stock held by our non-affiliates was $417,691,168. 

As an EGC: 

&#8226; 

we are exempted from compliance with Section 404(b) of Sarbanes-Oxley, which requires our auditors to attest to and report on our internal control over financial reporting; 

&#8226; 

we are not required to comply with any new or revised financial accounting standard until such date as a private company (i.e., a company that is not an "issuer" as defined by Section 2(a) of Sarbanes-Oxley) is required to comply with such new or revised accounting standard. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable with another public company which is neither an EGC nor an EGC which has opted out of using the extended transition period; 

&#8226; 

we may elect to not comply with Item 402 of Regulation S-K, which requires extensive quantitative and qualitative disclosure regarding executive compensation, but instead disclose the more limited information required of a "smaller reporting company"; 

&#8226; 

we are exempted from the following additional compensation-related disclosure provisions that were imposed on U.S. public companies pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act: (i) the advisory vote on executive compensation required by Section 14A(a) of the Exchange Act, (ii) the requirements of Section 14A(b) of the Exchange Act relating to stockholder advisory votes on "golden parachute" compensation, (iii) the requirements of Section 14(i) of the Exchange Act as to disclosure relating to the relationship between executive compensation and our financial performance, and (iv) the requirement of Section 953(b)(1) of the Dodd-Frank Act, which will require disclosure as to the relationship between the compensation of the Company's chief executive officer and median employee pay. 

As long as we are an EGC, the JOBS Act has the effect of reducing the amount of information that we are required to provide. 

