 Item 1. Business 

Company Background and Business Strategy 

TASER International, Inc.&#8217;s (the &#8220;Company&#8221; or &#8220;TASER&#8221; or &#8220;we&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221;) core mission is to protect life and to protect truth through innovative technologies that make communities safer. We are the market leader in the development, manufacture and sale of conducted electrical weapons (&#8220;CEWs&#8221;) designed for use by law enforcement, corrections, military forces, private security personnel and by private individuals for personal defense. We are also the market leader in connected wearable on-officer cameras which utilize our cloud-based digital evidence management solution which we refer to as our Axon solution. The Axon products help agencies capture, store, utilize, manage and share digital evidence. 

Technological innovation is the foundation of our long-term growth. By investing in research and development, we will continue to develop novel, high-value solutions across our product platforms. In 2015, we primarily focused on refining our Evidence.com services and exploring next generation hardware for our CEWs and body-worn cameras. In addition to research and development, we are increasingly utilizing strategic partnerships and acquisitions, such as our February 2016 partnership with Amped Software and May 2015 acquisition of MediaSolv Solutions Corporation, to expand our product and services portfolio. 

Our core strategy is to increase market penetration in domestic and international law enforcement markets. 

&#8226; 

In the United States, our focus is on ensuring that our CEWs are standard issue for all patrol officers, and we have developed purchasing programs that allow agencies to spread the cost of ownership over extended time-periods to help alleviate the need to make large up-front capital expenditures. By doing so, our goal is to provide law enforcement officers on-going access to our latest technologies at predictable prices. 

&#8226; 

In international markets, our focus is on demonstrating the benefits of large-scale adoptions of our CEWs and Axon products. In 2014, to facilitate sales and customer service for large-scale adoptions in foreign markets, we established TASER International, B.V. located in Amsterdam, Netherlands. In 2015, the United Kingdom ("UK") and Australia became benchmarks of successful large-scale deployments of TASER technology. In 2016 and 2017, we plan to continue to develop our pipeline in both number and size of opportunities. In particular, we will be focusing investments on target countries, such as France, the UK, Canada, and Australia, where large police forces represent considerable opportunity for increased sales. 

In the near future, we expect the video evidence capture and management market to grow significantly. Therefore, in 2016, we will be devoting significant resources towards enhancing the functionality of our existing software as a service ("SaaS") and developing our next revenue generating Axon product. 

Company Organization 

Our products are sold directly to law enforcement agencies and through a network of distribution channels we developed for selling and marketing our products and services to law enforcement agencies. The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. Domestic law enforcement agencies are served through the Company's headquarters in Scottsdale, Arizona and its Axon business unit located in Seattle, Washington, with various sales reps strategically located throughout the United States. In 2014, the Company established TASER International, B.V. located in Amsterdam, Netherlands, that serves as a permanent international headquarters to facilitate transactions with existing customers as well as allow for continued expansion into other foreign markets. During 2015, TASER International B.V. acquired Tactical Safety Responses Limited ("TSR"), its licensed distributor of TASER weapons and Axon cameras and related accessories in the UK as a way of expanding the Company's growth across the UK. Also during 2015, the Company formed Axon Public Service Canada, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary, to facilitate transactions for Axon products and services with new and existing customers located in Canada. 

The Company&#8217;s operations are comprised of two reportable segments: the sale of CEWs, accessories and other related products and services (the &#8220;TASER Weapons&#8221; segment); and the Axon business, focused on wearables, cloud and mobile products, including Axon video products, TASER Cam and Evidence.com (the "Axon" segment). Within the Axon segment, the Company includes only revenues and costs attributable to that segment which include: costs of sales for both products and services, direct labor, selling expense for the segment sales team, segment product management and marketing expenses, segment trade shows and related expenses, segment finance and accounting expenses, and research and development for products included, or to be included, within the Axon segment. All other costs are included in the TASER Weapons segment. Further information about our reportable segments and sales by geographic region is included in Notes 1(p) and 16 of the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Products 

TASER Weapons Products 

We make CEWs that use our proprietary Neuro Muscular Incapacitation (&#8220;NMI&#8221;) effects for two main types of market segments: (i) the law enforcement, military, corrections and professional security markets; and (ii) the consumer market. Our products use a replaceable cartridge containing compressed nitrogen to deploy and propel two small probes that are attached to the CEW by insulated conductive wires with lengths ranging from 15 to 35 feet. Our CEWs transmit electrical pulses along the wires and into the body affecting the sensory and motor functions of the peripheral nervous system. The basic design is to provide incapacitating effects that last in cycles of five seconds for our law enforcement, military, corrections and private security products and up to thirty seconds for our consumer market models. This effect can be extended, if necessary, by the operator. 

The benefits of using CEWs in the field have been undeniable and powerful. By some studies, TASER CEWs have prevented death or serious injury more than 160,000 times from the first deployment in 2000 to the end of 2015 . In addition to protecting life, the use of these devices instead of other force options has significantly reduced injuries for suspects and officers with substantial liability and workers&#8217; compensation savings to government agencies around the world. 

The following products are core to the Company's TASER Weapons product line: 

TASER X26P &#32;- The X26P is currently our smallest and most compact Smart Weapon for law enforcement, and is ergonomically designed with ease of performance in mind. TASER Smart Weapons are built on an all-digital platform, and have the ability to regulate charge output, perform health checks, update firmware over the Internet and provide analytics displaying how and when someone uses a device. Through the Company's Evidence.com platform important records, such as event logs and pulse logs, can be viewed and analyzed. Event logs save every user action for record-keeping, including safety activation, and trigger event duration with times, dates, and battery life. Pulse logs display a pulse-by-pulse record of weapon output. 

TASER X2 &#32;- The X2, designed for law enforcement but available to the professional consumer, provides users with the same Smart Weapon features as the X26P. Additionally, the X2 incorporates agencies' most requested features such as a backup shot, dual lasers to ensure accuracy, and a warning arc to ensure accuracy and effectiveness. The warning arc, a visible electric charge, increases voluntary surrenders and helps stop conflicts from escalating. It issues an audible and visual warning directly over the front of live cartridges. 

TASER C2 &#32; - The C2 is the currently the Company's primary model for the consumer market. The C2 features the same NMI effects as those available to law enforcement in a discreet appearance and compact and light form factor. The TASER C2 provides incapacitating effects that lasts in cycles of 30 seconds which is intended to allow adequate time for the user to escape the threat. 

TASER Pulse &#32;- During January 2016, the Company introduced its newest consumer product, the TASER Pulse CEW, which is a sub-compact model with a newly designed form factor with additional features as compared to the TASER C2, all at a comparable price point. The TASER Pulse became available for sale in the first quarter of 2016. 

Replacement Cartridges &#32;- &#32; We manufacture multiple cartridge types for varying ranges and purposes. Types of cartridges include, among others, standard cartridges, smart cartridges and training cartridges. Smart cartridges communicate with the fire control system within the TASER X2 indicating the type of cartridge loaded in each bay and its deployment status. Standard cartridges are designed for use within the X26P CEW systems and are also used in our legacy X26E and M26 products. The Company also offers standard replacement cartridges for the C2 and Pulse consumer models. Our cartridges are available in unique variations for warm and cold climates, training scenarios, and tactical situations. 

Axon Connected Solutions 

Axon creates connected technologies for truth in public safety. As a segment of TASER International, we're building on a history of innovation in policing. Axon isn&#8217;t just a collection of individual technologies; it's a cohesive ecosystem. Every product works together, built by the same team of engineers and supported by the same technicians. Every product from our Smart Weapons to our body-worn cameras to our digital evidence management system integrates seamlessly with one another, and often complements the systems and processes a customer already uses. Below are the products and features that are core to the Axon platform. 

Hardware Products: 

Axon Body &#32;- Axon Body is a simple, low-priced body-worn camera for law enforcement, designed for customers seeking deployment at a lower price-point. 

Axon Body 2 &#32;- Axon Body 2 builds upon the original platform bringing officers new features such as high-definition ("HD") video, wireless fidelity ("Wi-Fi") offload capabilities, longer battery life, and additional security enhancements. Both the original Axon Body and Axon Body 2 eliminate the need for the camera to be mounted above the shoulder of the individual and rather hooks into the shirt of the officer at mid-chest level. These cameras also eliminate all wires from the wearer&#8217;s body. Axon Body 2 was available for shipment in limited quantities during the first quarter of 2016. 

Axon Flex &#32;- The Axon flex camera system records video and audio of critical incidents from the visual perspective of the officer. Axon flex provides complete flexibility in how an officer chooses to wear the device, including an option to deploy as an attachment to Oakley Flak Jacket &#8482; &#32;eyewear. 

TASER Cam HD &#32;- Is a recording device, which integrates with Evidence.com, that captures both video and audio of potential and actual TASER use incidents as an accessory to a TASER CEW. The device can capture video and audio before, during and after a TASER CEW deployment, which provides law enforcement with a greater level of accountability to support their use of TASER weapons against a resistant subject. 

Axon Fleet &#32; - Axon Fleet is a breakthrough in-car video system with advanced capabilities and a price that's 90% less than traditional systems. Axon Fleet includes automatic activation, HD video and a flexible design. It is also upgraded continuously behind the scenes with new software features, and is part of a powerful platform that connects mobile, cloud, and wearable technologies. Axon Fleet is expected to ship during fiscal 2016. 

Axon Interview &#32;- Axon Interview is a video and audio recording system designed for the critical context of the interview room. The system records crucial interviews with redundant, high-quality video and audio technology, ensuring that every moment is captured. The system is available with a 24/7 buffering option that allows agencies to capture key dialogue even after it occurs. 

Axon Signal &#32;- Body-worn cameras have been protecting the truth in agencies across the country, but they're only able to clarify events when they're activated. With manual activation, officers are sometimes unable to hit record in intense and stressful situations. We've developed Axon Signal, an automatic activation technology for Axon cameras. 

Axon Dock &#32;- With the Axon Dock, the camera charging station is also the automatic data downloader. At the end of a shift, the Dock syncs video from the user's Axon Flex or Axon Body camera during routine charging. Videos are uploaded directly to Evidence.com, eliminating manual filing processes and freeing the user to focus on more important duties. 

Axon Software and Mobile Technologies: 

Evidence.com &#32;- As the sources of digital evidence expand, storage alone isn't enough to keep track of the body-worn camera videos, photos, audio recordings, and other data that is overwhelming agency servers and systems. Evidence.com is a robust end-to-end solution that not only allows agencies to store all that data, but also enables new workflows for managing and sharing that data. Officers and command staff can upload content from Axon and TASER devices or other systems easily, manage it simply with search and retrieval features, and then collaborate effortlessly with prosecutors by using powerful sharing features. When storage needs or users increase, the cloud-based system allows agencies to scale instantly and cost-effectively. Evidence.com offers several license options, ranging in price, that tailors to the needs of agencies of all sizes. We currently offer our Basic, Standard and Pro licenses that contain incremental feature sets with Pro license containing all of the advanced features currently available. The Company also offers its Ultimate license that includes the Pro license features with Axon camera upgrades and extended warranty services. The Company's Unlimited plan contains the offerings under the Ultimate tier, and includes unlimited HD storage of Axon digital evidence uploads. Finally, the Company offers its Officer Safety Plan tier that provides the highest value by bundling a TASER Smart Weapon with all of the features offered in the Unlimited Plan. All product and service revenues described above, with the exception of the TASER Smart Weapon, are included in the Company's calculation of Axon segment bookings. 

Evidence.com &#32; for Prosecutors &#32;- The same end-to-end evidence management solutions of Evidence.com now allow prosecutors to manage evidence of any type, from any agency, all in one place. Ramp-up time is immediate, and scaling to meet future needs is effortless. Files can be shared during discovery, complete chain of custody is maintained, and all evidence is encrypted. Plus, for prosecuting attorneys working with agencies already using Evidence.com, standard prosecutor licenses are provided at no cost. 

Evidence Sync &#32;- Is a desktop-based application that enables evidence in any format, from any source to be uploaded to Evidence.com. TASER Smart Weapon logs, Axon camera videos, dash cam and interview room footage, still photos and more can be uploaded, stored, and managed in one location, accessible anytime, anywhere. Sources new and old&#8212;from TASER devices or other brands&#8212;are equally supported. Network servers, SD cards, CDs, and computer folders can be synced with ease, and frequently used folders or drives can be set up to automatically sync on schedule. 

Axon Capture &#32; - Is a mobile application built specifically to allow officers to capture digital evidence right from the field. The app eliminates the need to carry three separate devices for photo, video, and audio recording. Instead, it builds upon the capabilities 

of an officer's mobile phone with the security and organization needed to protect truth. Officers can add tags, titles or GPS coordinates to any recordings before uploading the data to Evidence.com. 

Axon View &#32;- Is a mobile application that wirelessly connects with an Axon camera to provide instant playback of unfolding events from the field, in the field. The app's live display to ensure the camera is well-placed, and the playback function helps eliminate the &#8220;he said, she said&#8221; on the spot. 

Axon Five &#32;- Is the most complete software application available to help you enhance and analyze images and videos. An unmatched feature set lets a customer uncover details that assists officers in solving crimes. Since time is valuable, Axon Five also automates time-consuming tasks like removing duplicated or mismatched frames, making officers more productive at work. 

Axon Convert - &#32;Is a local software solution that gives customers the power to convert unplayable file formats with ease. It ingests and converts files in minutes with only a few clicks, making manual conversion a thing of the past. Since we know maintaining an evidence trail is important, Axon Convert not only produces a playable file, but also preserves the original and creates a report detailing the exact changes. 

Axon Detect &#32;- Is a photo analysis program for tamper detection. It goes beyond image-matching to offer a robust suite of authentication tools to certify evidence in-house. This reduces the need for external consultants, shortens turnaround time, and allows for use of evidence captured by the public. 

Markets and Distribution 

Law Enforcement and Corrections 

Our primary target market for both our weapon and video products is federal, state and local law enforcement agencies in the U.S. and throughout the world. In the law enforcement market, more than 17,000 &#32;law enforcement agencies in nearly 150 &#32;countries have made initial purchases of our TASER brand devices for testing or deployment. Our belief is that in the U.S., approximately two-thirds of all law enforcement patrol officers carry a TASER CEW and internationally, approximately one out of every fifty eligible law enforcement officers carries a TASER CEW. Our goal is to have our CEWs be standard issue equipment for all domestic and international law agencies. 

Other Markets 

We also target military forces, private security, and consumer personal protection markets to provide technologies that offer a less lethal force of protection. 

U.S. Distribution 

The Company sells directly to law enforcement agencies in the U.S. as well as through a distribution network. Distributors are selected based upon their reputation within their respective industries, their contacts and their distribution network. Our regional sales managers work closely with the distributors in their territory to inform and educate the law enforcement communities. We continue to monitor our law enforcement distributors closely to help ensure that our service standards are achieved. Where appropriate, we intend to grow our direct sales over time. Distributors often allow us to penetrate regions at lower fixed costs; however, direct sales allow us greater control over the customer relationship. 

Sales in the private citizen market are primarily made through our distributors and our website. We have implemented a variety of marketing initiatives to support sales of our consumer products, with a focus on web, public relations and consumer trade shows. We have consulted with professional digital media and public relations professionals to assist us in media and press events, and editorial placements along with attending numerous tradeshows specifically to target the consumer market. 

International Distribution 

We market and distribute our CEW products to foreign markets through our international subsidiaries as well as through a network of distributors. For geographical and cultural reasons, our distributors usually have a territory defined by their country&#8217;s borders. These distributors market both our law enforcement, military, and corrections products, and our consumer products where allowed by law. Our distributors work with local law enforcement, military and corrections agencies in the same manner as our domestic market distributors. For example, they may perform demonstrations, attend industry tradeshows, maintain country specific websites, engage in print advertising and arrange training classes. 

In order to more effectively engage customers internationally, we have also implemented direct sales teams strategically located throughout each major geographic region of the world. Having dedicated sales personnel stationed full time in these regions will allow us to better serve existing customers as well as execute our sales and marketing strategies more efficiently in order to continue to grow our customer base in new markets. 

Manufacturing 

We perform light manufacturing, final assembly, and final test operations at our headquarters in Scottsdale, Arizona, and own substantially all of the equipment required to develop, prototype, manufacture and assemble our finished products. This includes critical injection molds, schematics, automation equipment, test equipment and prototypes utilized by our supply chain for the conversion of raw materials into sub-assemblies. We have implemented lean/six sigma methodologies to optimize most direct and indirect resources within the organization, which has helped boost capacity for existing products, as well as provide flexibility to accommodate production of new TASER and Axon product introductions. We are currently operating one to two production shifts depending on inventory levels and demand. However, other capacity options, including the use of additional shifts, will be considered should we experience higher demand resulting from large orders of legacy or new product releases. We continue to maintain our ISO 9001 certification. 

Although most components essential to the Company&#8217;s business are generally available from multiple sources, a number of components are currently obtained from single or limited sources. In addition, the Company competes for various components with other participants in our markets. Therefore, many components used by the Company, are at times subject to industry-wide shortage, and significant pricing fluctuations that could materially adversely affect the Company&#8217;s financial condition and operating results. 

Business Seasonality and Product Introductions 

The Company has historically experienced higher net sales in its second and fourth quarters compared to other quarters in its fiscal year due to municipal budget cycles. Additionally, new product introductions can significantly impact net sales, product costs and operating expenses. However, historical seasonal patterns, municipal budgets or historical patterns of product introductions should be considered reliable indicators of the Company&#8217;s future net sales or financial performance. 

Backlog 

Our backlog for products and services includes all orders that have been received and are believed to be firm. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014 our backlog was $183.9 million &#32;and $75.3 million &#32;, respectively. Included in our backlog as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 was deferred revenue of $51.0 million &#32;and $35.7 million , respectively. Of the deferred revenue balances recorded at December 31, 2015 and 2014, current deferred revenue was $20.9 million &#32;and $14.0 million , respectively. 

Competition 

Law Enforcement, Corrections and Private Security Markets 

Law enforcement customers partner with TASER for the long-term. The primary competitive factors in the law enforcement and corrections market include a weapon&#8217;s accuracy, effectiveness, safety, cost, ease of use and an exceptional customer experience. We are aware of competitors providing competing CEW products, primarily in international markets. 

We also believe our CEWs compete indirectly with a variety of other less-lethal alternatives. These alternatives include, but are not limited to, pepper spray, batons and impact weapons sold by companies such as Defense Technology. We believe our TASER brand devices&#8217; advanced technology, versatility, portability, effectiveness, built-in accountability systems, and low injury rate enable us to compete effectively against these other less-lethal alternatives. 

Private Citizen Market 

CEWs have gained limited acceptance in the private citizen market. These devices primarily compete with guns, but also with other less lethal weapons such as pepper spray. The primary competitive factors in the private citizen market include a weapon&#8217;s cost, effectiveness, safety and ease of use. 

Video Evidence Market 

The video evidence capture and management market segment is a highly fragmented and competitive market. Continued evolution in the industry and technology shifts are creating opportunities for both established and new competitors. Key competitive factors include: product performance; product features; product quality and warranty; total cost of ownership; data security; data and information work flows; company reputation and financial strength; and relationship with customers. 

Our digital evidence management system, Evidence.com, is a cloud-based platform. Cloud computing fundamentally changes the way local, state and federal government agencies will develop and deploy software applications. Applications used by these agencies have historically required the agency to deploy their own infrastructure of servers, storage, network devices and operating systems. With a cloud-based system, the entire storage infrastructure is managed by third parties who specialize in infrastructure management. Agencies use Internet web browsers to access the application. Our cloud-based Evidence.com service enables agencies to store, manage and analyze digital evidence. We believe our end-to-end solution of Axon and Evidence.com is a compelling value proposition for law enforcement agencies to implement. 

Regulatory Matters 

U.S. Regulation 

The majority of TASER weapons, as well as the cartridges used by these devices, are subject to regulations; however, most are not considered to be a &#8220;firearm&#8221; by the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The TASER XREP, a non-core shotgun CEW product, does use a propellant system which falls under the definition of a &#8220;firearm&#8221; and is, therefore, subject to federal firearms-related regulations. Many states have regulations restricting the sale and use of stun guns, hand-held shock devices and electronic weapons. We believe existing stun gun laws and regulations apply to our devices. 

In many cases, the law enforcement and corrections market is subject to different regulations than the private citizen market. Where different regulations exist, we assume the regulations affecting the private citizen market also apply to the private security markets, except as the applicable regulations otherwise specifically provide. 

As of December 31, 2015 , the possession of stun guns by the general public, including TASER CEWs, is prohibited in five states: Hawaii, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, and Rhode Island, as well as in the District of Columbia. Some cities and municipalities also prohibit private citizen possession or use of our products. 

We are also subject to environmental laws and regulations, including restrictions on the presence of certain substances in electronic products. Reference is made to Section 1A, Risk Factors under the heading &#8220;Environmental laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs.&#8221; 

Evidence.com is subject to government regulation of the Internet in many areas, including telecommunications, data protection, user privacy and online content. 

U.S. Export Regulation 

CEWs are considered a crime control product by the U.S. government. Accordingly, the export of our devices is regulated under export administration regulations. As a result, we must obtain export licenses from the Department of Commerce for all shipments to foreign countries other than Canada. Most of our requests for export licenses have been granted, and the need to obtain these licenses has not caused a material delay in our shipments. Export regulations also prohibit the further shipment of our products from foreign markets in which we hold a valid export license to foreign markets in which we do not hold an export license for our products. 

The Department of Commerce restricts the export of technology used in our CEWs. These regulations apply to both the technology incorporated in our CEW systems and to the processes used to produce them. The technology export regulations do not apply to production that takes place within the U.S. but is applicable to some sub-assemblies and controlled items manufactured outside the U.S. 

Foreign Regulation 

Foreign regulations, which may affect our devices, and sale thereof, are numerous and often unclear. We prefer to work with a distributor who is familiar with the applicable import regulations in each of our foreign markets. Experience with foreign distributors in the past indicates that restrictions may prohibit certain sales of our products in a number of countries. The vast majority of countries permit TASER devices to be sold and used by law enforcement. We maintain strong communication channels with our distributors to ensure we are aware of those countries where TASER CEW devices are prohibited or restricted. 

Contracts 

Our business is affected by numerous laws and regulations, including those related to the award, administration and performance of contracts. Governmental agencies generally have the ability to terminate our contracts, in whole or in part, for reasons including, but not limited to, non-appropriation of funds. We monitor our policies and procedures with respect to our 

contracts on a regular basis to enhance consistent application under similar terms and conditions, as well as compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. 

Intellectual Property 

We protect our intellectual property with U.S. and foreign patents and trademarks. Our patents and pending patent applications relate to technology used by us in connection with our products. We also rely on international treaties, organizations and foreign laws to protect our intellectual property. As of December 31, 2015 , we hold 94 &#32;U.S. patents and 92 &#32;foreign patents and also have numerous patents and trademarks pending. We continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and technologies based on such factors as the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors&#8217; operations in particular countries and regions, our strategic technology or product directions in different countries and the degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different jurisdictions. TASER has the exclusive rights to many Internet domain names primarily including &#8216;TASER.com&#8217;, &#8216;Evidence.com' and 'Axon.io.&#8217; 

Confidentiality agreements are used with employees, consultants and key suppliers to help ensure the confidentiality of our trade secrets. 

Research and Development 

Our research and development initiatives focus on next generation technology. Internally funded research has been primarily focused on improvements to existing TASER products and digital evidence management systems, or the development of new applications for TASER technology that we believe generally will have broad market appeal. Our investment in internally funded research and development totaled $23.6 million , $14.9 million &#32;and $9.9 million &#32;in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. 

Within the Axon segment, the Company's team of application developers conduct research and development initiatives for cloud applications, wearable and mobile technologies in law enforcement, focused specifically on new revenue opportunities that align with our Axon product solutions. We're investing in having the best software and technology talent because we believe this market has suffered from sub par technology for decades and we believe our leading edge gives us a well-appreciated product advantage to disrupt more established technology companies. 

Within the TASER Weapons segment, current research and development initiatives include bio-medical research and electrical, mechanical and software engineering. We expect that future CEW development projects will focus on extending the range, reducing the size, improving the functionality and developing new delivery options for our products. 

Our return on investment is intended to be realized over the long term, although new systems and technologies often can have a more immediate impact on our business. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 549 &#32;full-time employees and 121 &#32;temporary employees. The breakdown of our full-time employees by department is as follows: 151 &#32;direct manufacturing employees and 398 &#32;administrative and manufacturing support employees. Of the 398 &#32;administrative and manufacturing support employees, 156 &#32;were involved in sales, marketing, communications and training. Of the 121 &#32;temporary employees, more than 90% &#32;worked in direct manufacturing roles. Our employees are not covered by any collective bargaining agreement, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. 

Available Information 

We were incorporated in Arizona in September 1993 as ICER Corporation. We changed our name to AIR TASER, Inc. in December 1993 and to TASER International, Incorporated in April 1998. In January 2001, we reincorporated in Delaware as TASER International, Inc. 

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge on our website at http://www.TASER.com &#32;as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov . 

