 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

History 

Security Devices International Inc. (the &#147;Company&#148; or the &#147;Corporation&#148;) was incorporated on March 1, 2005. The Company began as a research and development company focused on the development of 40mm less-lethal ammunition.

The Company initiated with the development of a wireless electric projectile (a &#147;WEP&#148;), named the Lektrox. The Company hired a ballistics engineering firm to collaborate in the development of the WEP.

Commencing in December 2008, the Joint Non-Lethal Weapons Directorate (&#147;JNLWD&#148;) of the US Department of Defense, an organization responsible for the development and coordination of non-lethal weapons activities within the United States, tested the WEP through its evaluation facility at Penn State University. An executive summary was released to the Company indicating a positive outcome. 

In the fall of 2010 the Company underwent a change in the board of directors and management.

Early in 2011 the Company focused its attention on a new 40mm product, the blunt impact projectile (&#147;BIP&#148;), and discontinued further development work on the WEP. The Company was able to exploit some of the patented technology of the WEP into the BIP. The Company concluded that the cost and time required to complete development and testing of the BIP were significantly less than that required to complete development and testing of the WEP.

In 2011, the Company moved its engineering, intellectual property and production facilities to the operator (the &#147;BIP Manufacturer&#148;) of an injection molding facility outside of Boston, Massachusetts.

2012 

In June 2012, the Company contracted CRT Less Lethal Inc. (&#147;CRT&#148;) to test the BIP. Based on data obtained from the three-stage evaluation, the BIP passed the CRT testing protocol for accuracy, consistency, relative safety and effectiveness. 

In July 2012, the Company signed a five-year development, supply and manufacturing agreement with a subcontractor to Manufacture the BIP.

In November 2012, the Company obtained a United States Department of Transportation number (DOT#) required in order for the Company to ship BIP rounds. 

In 2012, the Company began the development of five new less-lethal ammunition rounds. These new rounds will be a modified version of the BIP, four of which will carry a payload, including; BIP MP (temporary powder-based marking agent), BIP ML (semi-permanent liquid marking agent), BIP OC (Oleoresin Capsicum - a pepper spray powder), BIP MO (malodorant liquid), and the BIP TR (training round).

The Company moved its full manufacturing and supply chain operations to the BIP manufacturer, a supply manufacturing and engineering company, in the Boston, MA area.

The Company undertook an Initial Public Offering (IPO) in January and became a public reporting issuer on the TSX-Venture Exchange in September 2013.

2014 

SDI began another globally recognized testing protocol with a military agency called HECOE (the Human Effects Centre of Excellence). This world-renowned agency is located in the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL), in partnership with the US Joint Non-lethal Weapons Directorate (JNLWD). This group conducts research to assist Non-lethal Weapon (NLW) Program Managers across the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) in assessing effectiveness and risks of NLWs. The positive conclusion of this testing allows DOD to purchase SDI rounds. 

April - SDI appointed Keith Morrison to the board of directors as non-executive Chairman 

May - SDI&#146;s BIP rounds were used at the Mock Prison Riot in West Virginia. Law enforcement and correctional services officers provided feedback on new technologies (such as SDI&#146;s products) to assist in the effectiveness of their jobs.

August - The Company completed the issuance of 1,549 convertible unsecured debentures at $1,000 per debenture for gross proceeds of $1,549,000 (the &#147;Private Placement&#148;). 

October - Security Devices International Inc. announced that the Company and a division of Abrams Airborne Manufacturing Inc. (AAMI), namely Milkor USA (MUSA), have agreed to partner for a joint cross-selling / marketing initiative.

November - The Company named Karim Kanji to the board of directors as an independent member.

SDI has sold their BIP products into nine new agencies during the fiscal year of 2014 including Sheriff Departments, Correctional Services, and SWAT teams in; Saskatoon, SK, Watertown, SD, Abbotsford, BC, Sacramento, CA, Kingston, ON, Rustburg, VA, Orlando, FL, Montreal, QC, and Bedford, VA. These agencies are additions to SDI&#146;s customer base that have adopted its 40mm less-lethal rounds.

2015: 

In January 2015, SDI commenced a public relations program and through the year, SDI has been featured in over 700 media outlets globally, including live interviews on FOX television, News One in New York, and CP24 in Toronto. 

March - SDI was invited to speak at the Launch festival in San Francisco, to present their innovative less-lethal technology during a panel discussion on the future of policing. The Launch festival focuses on start-up and emerging technology companies and the festival was streamed to approximately 4 million viewers. 

During the second quarter, SDI attended the American Jail Association&#146;s annual conference in North Carolina and performed a live fire demonstration to numerous State and local Agencies while in North Carolina. 

During Q2, SDI also attended the Canadian Tactical Conference in Collingwood, Ontario as well as the New York Tactical Conference in Verona, New York. 

Through SDI&#146;s distributor (U.S. Tactical Supply&#150; GSA) the Company was able to leverage their relationship to facilitate a live-fire demonstration for the Pentagon Protection Force in Alexandria, Virginia. 

May - SDI participated in the &#147;Mock Prison Riot&#148; which takes place annually at a decommissioned penitentiary in Moundsville, West Virginia. The Mock Prison Riot is a four-day, comprehensive law enforcement and corrections tactical and technology experience, including 40,000 square feet of exhibit space, training scenarios, technology demonstrations, certification workshops, a Skills Competition, and unlimited opportunities for feedback, networking, and camaraderie on a global scale. 

SDI enhanced their customer base in the quarter by adding 9 new agencies in multiple States and Provinces both in Canada and the US. 

SDI staff attended the Ohio Tactical officers conference in June where the Company not only had a full exhibit booth set up to bring awareness to SDI&#146;s full line of less lethal 40MM products but also conducted live fire demonstrations to several agencies. These agencies had requested seeing the projectiles fired to move forward with evaluation of SDI&#146;s products for potential inclusion in their less lethal arsenal. 

July - SDI was invited to present the company&#146;s full line of products to the New York City Police Department. Representatives of SDI attended the NYPD range and conducted in-class presentations followed by a live fire demonstration showcasing the full line on 40MM products that SDI can offer for Law Enforcement operational missions. 

July - The Associated Press (&#147;AP&#148;), conducted interviews with SDI management and attended SDI&#146;s manufacturing partners&#146; location for an in depth look at the company and the technology. The AP completed a story on the uniqueness of the product line and the increased element of safety that SDI&#146;s products offer, and released the story to the newswire, where it was picked up by approximately 800 media outlets, worldwide. 

August - SDI was invited to present to the Toronto Police Service (&#147;TPS&#148;), who are currently exploring less lethal options for front line officers. A full presentation was given to decision makers of the TPS and a follow-up live fire demonstration will be occurring in the 4 th quarter of this year. 

September &#150; SDI conducted their Annual General Meeting and shareholders approved the following: 

&#160; 1) The Board of Directors, as it stands today, was re-elected.

&#160; 2) Schwartz Levitsky Feldman, LLP was re-appointed as SDI&#146;s auditors.

&#160; 3) Approval of an amendment to Company&#146;s by-laws concerning the quorum required to hold a meeting of shareholders.

&#160; 4) Approval of the Company&#146;s incentive stock option plan.

&#160; 5) Approval of an amendment to the Company&#146;s articles to prohibit the issuance of shares of preferred stock having multiple voting attributes.

In FY2015, SDI added 24 new Law Enforcement and Correctional Agencies to its paid customer base. The Company as at fiscal yearend holds 40 agencies as customers. 

Products 

SDI&#146;s business is the development, manufacture and sale of less-lethal ammunition. This ammunition is used by the military, correctional services, and police agencies for crowd control. 

The Company has two products: 

a) The Company has developed the BIP, a blunt impact projectile which uses pain compliance to control a target. The Company has developed five versions of the standard BIP, four of which contain a payload and one of which is a cheaper cost, training round. A payload is an internal medium within the BIP, holding a liquid or powder substance.

&#160; &#160; b) The Company has undertaken substantial work to develop the WEP, a wireless electric projective which releases an electrical pulse that induces a muscle spasm and causes the target to fall to the ground helpless.

Intellectual Property: 

Five patent applications, four non-provisional and one provisional, have been filed by the Company with the U.S. Patent Office. The Patents have been granted on the four non-provisional patents.

Non-Provisional (granted patents): 

(a) Less-lethal Projectile: This issued patent relates to the Company&#146;s distinctive collapsible ammunition head technology that absorbs kinetic energy of the projectile upon impact. The Corporation&#146;s collapsible head is used in both the BIP and the WEP. 

(b) Electronic Circuitry for Incapacitating a Living Target: This issued patent relates to the electronic circuitry incapacitation system which forms part of the WEP. The patent describes an electronic circuit which provides an electrical incapacitation current to a living target.

(c) Less-lethal Wireless Stun Projectile System for Immobilizing a Target by Neuro-Muscular Disruption: This issued patent describes the process by which the WEP operates with its attachment system to halt a target through a neuro-muscular-disruption system. 

(d) Autonomous Operation of a Less-lethal Projectile: This patent describes a motion sensing system within the WEP. The sensor will monitor movement of the target and enable the electrical output until the target is subdued. The electrical pulse is programmed for an exact time-frame to specifications of the user. 

Provisional Patent: 

(e) Payload carrying arrangement for a non-lethal projectile: This Provisional patent relates to the process of carrying liquid and powder payloads in the head of the BIP munitions that upon impact release from the head and are dispersed upon the target. 

Less-Lethal Sector 

Police and military forces require easily applied options for riot control without the consequences of lethal force. They must balance the risk of injury or death to their own personnel against the risk of injury to civilians, including bystanders. Riot control involves difficult and challenging decisions that often must be made within seconds.

Conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, events such as the August 2011 UK riots, and the June 2012 Quebec student street violence have led governments, police and defense decision-makers, to seek cost effective less-lethal weapons. These decision-makers understand that social media will limit the use of lethal weapons and a new generation of less-lethal weapons is required. 

Correctional Services facilities have suffered with the ability to control a subject without using excessive force. The Company&#146;s product allows for a correctional officer to deploy a projectile at close range without harming the subject and still maintain protocol within their agency. In management&#146;s opinion, the projectile suffices pain compliance on the subject, with properly followed safety precautions. 

General 

&#160; &#149; &#160; As of November 30, 2015, SDI had consultants and no full-time employees. 

&#149; SDI&#146;s offices are located at 25 Sawyer Passway, Fitchburg, Massachusetts, 01420 and 125 Lakeshore Road East, Unit 300, Oakville, Ontario L6J 1H3 Canada. SDI rents its Ontario office at a cost of CAN $6,399 per month pursuant to a lease which expires on April 30, 2018. SDI maintains an office within the Micron manufacturing facility under an agreement with Micron, with no lease cost to SDI. 

&#160; &#149; &#160; SDI&#146;s website is www.securitydii.com . 

