 ITEM 1. Business 

We are an industry leading technology company that enables customers to go further, faster. With the industry's most comprehensive portfolio, spanning the cloud to the data center to workplace applications, our technology and services help customers around the world make information technology ("IT") more efficient, more productive and more secure. Our legacy dates back to a partnership founded in 1939 by William R. Hewlett and David Packard, and we strive every day to uphold and enhance that legacy through our dedication to providing innovative technological solutions to our customers. 

On November 1, 2015, HP Inc. ("former Parent" or "HPI"), formerly known as Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP Co."), spun-off Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company ("we", "us", "our", "Hewlett Packard Enterprise", "HPE", or "the Company"), pursuant to a separation agreement (the "Separation and Distribution Agreement") (collectively, the "Separation"). To effect the spin-off, HP Inc. distributed all of the shares of Hewlett Packard Enterprise common stock owned by HP Inc. to its shareholders on November 1, 2015. Holders of HP Inc. common stock received one share of Hewlett Packard Enterprise stock for every share of HP Inc. stock held as of the record date. As a result of the spin-off, we now operate as an independent, publicly traded company. 

On May 24, 2016, we announced plans for a tax-free spin-off and merger of our Enterprise Services business ("Everett") with Computer Sciences Corporation ("CSC") (collectively, the "Everett Transaction"). Immediately following the Everett Transaction, which is currently targeted to be completed on or around April 1, 2017, shareholders of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company will own shares of both Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and approximately 50.1% of the new combined company. Mr. J. Michael Lawrie, the current Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") of CSC, will become chairman, president and CEO of the new combined company and Ms. Margaret C. Whitman, President and CEO of HPE, will join the Board of Directors. Other executives and directors will be announced at a later date. As of the announcement date, the Everett Transaction is expected to deliver approximately $8.5 billion to the shareholders of Hewlett Packard Enterprise on an after-tax basis. This includes an equity stake for HPE shareholders in the new combined company valued at approximately $4.5 billion, which represents approximately 50.1% ownership, a cash dividend of $1.5 billion to Hewlett Packard Enterprise, and the assumption of $2.5 billion of Hewlett Packard Enterprise net debt and other liabilities. The Everett Transaction is subject to certain customary closing conditions including approval by CSC shareholders, the effective filing of related registration statements, completion of a tax-free spin-off, Everett debt exchange, the expiration of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and the receipt of certain required foreign anti-trust approvals. 

On September 7, 2016, we announced plans for a spin-off and merger of our Software segment ("Seattle") with Micro Focus International plc (&#8220;Micro Focus&#8221;) (collectively, the &#8220;Seattle Transaction&#8221;), which will create a pure-play enterprise software company. Upon the completion of the Seattle Transaction, which is currently targeted to be completed by approximately August 31, 2017, shareholders of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company will own shares of both Hewlett Packard Enterprise and approximately 50.1% of the new combined company. As of the announcement date, the transaction is expected to deliver approximately $8.8 billion to the shareholders of Hewlett Packard Enterprise on an after-tax basis. This includes an equity stake for HPE shareholders in the new combined company valued at approximately $6.3 billion, which represents approximately 50.1% ownership, and a cash dividend of $2.5 billion to Hewlett Packard Enterprise. The Seattle Transaction is subject to certain customary closing conditions, including approval by Micro Focus shareholders, the effective filing of related registration statements, regulatory approvals, the receipt of certain tax opinions, the expiration of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and the receipt of certain required foreign anti-trust approvals. 

Our Business Segments, Products and Services 

We organize our business into the following five segments: 

&#8226; 

Enterprise Group. Our Enterprise Group ("EG") provides our customers with the cutting-edge technology infrastructure they need to optimize traditional IT while building a secure, cloud-enabled and mobile-ready future. 

&#8226; 

Software. Our Software allows our customers to automate IT operations to simplify, accelerate and secure business processes and drives the analytics that turn raw data into actionable knowledge. 

&#8226; 

Enterprise Services. Our Enterprise Services ("ES") brings all of our solutions together through our consulting and support professionals to deliver superior, comprehensive results for our customers. 

&#8226; 

Financial Services. Financial Services ("FS") enables flexible IT consumption models, financial architectures and customized investment solutions for our customers. 

&#8226; 

Corporate Investments. Corporate Investments includes Hewlett Packard Labs and certain cloud-related business incubation projects, among others. 

A summary of our net revenue, earnings from operations and assets for our segments can be found in Note 2, "Segment Information", to our Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements. A discussion of certain factors potentially affecting our operations is set forth in Item 1A, "Risk Factors." 

Enterprise Group 

EG provides a broad portfolio of enterprise technology solutions to address customer needs in building the foundation for the next generation of applications, web services and user experiences&#8212;which are only as rich, impactful and world-changing as the infrastructure platforms that they sit on. EG technology addresses a wide range of customer challenges, including supporting new types of applications, new approaches to IT operations, and new demands and uses for insight, and managing new threats and risks. EG technology also allows customers to capitalize on a wide range of trends and opportunities, from servicing new segments and buying behaviors to inventing new consumption models and creating new revenue streams. EG technology delivers customer outcomes through its innovative, industry leading portfolio across servers, storage, networking, management software, converged infrastructure solutions, and technology services. In today's rapidly changing technology landscape, customers face twin challenges when it comes to their infrastructure foundation: they must optimize their "traditional IT" to support existing applications, and they must simultaneously invest in "cloud-first, mobile-first" infrastructure that will support the next generation of applications, web services and user experiences. The EG portfolio delivers products and services across servers, storage and networking to reduce cost and continue high performance operations for traditional IT loads. For tomorrow's cloud-first, mobile-first workloads, the EG portfolio provides products and services across converged solutions engineered for the world's most important workloads in cloud, mobility, Infrastructure-as-a-Service, and big data; HPE OneView as the industry's only unified display software-defined infrastructure management solution; HPE Helion cloud portfolio delivering a broad offering of hybrid cloud solutions, cloud services and cloud software; and technology services to advise customers on the right path to transforming their enterprises for tomorrow's digital era. 

&#160; Servers. Servers offers both Industry Standard Servers ("ISS") as well as Mission-Critical Servers ("MCS") to address the full array of our customers' compute needs. ISS provides a range of products from entry level servers, premium HPE ProLiant servers, and workload-specific servers for High Performance Computing, Big Data, and Hyperscale workloads. These servers typically run Windows, Linux and virtualization platforms from software providers including Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft") and VMware, Inc. ("VMware") and open sourced software from other major vendors while leveraging x86 processors from Intel Corporation and Advanced Micro Devices. For the most Mission-critical workloads, HPE delivers Integrity servers based on the Intel&#174; Itanium&#174; processor, HPE Integrity NonStop solutions and mission critical x86 HPE ProLiant servers. 

Storage. Our storage offerings include platforms for enterprise and small- and medium-size business ("SMB") environments. Our flagship product is the 3PAR StoreServ Storage Platform, which is designed for virtualization, cloud and IT-as-a-service. Traditional Storage solutions include tape, storage networking and legacy external disk products such as EVA and XP. Converged Storage solutions include 3PAR StoreServ, StoreOnce and StoreVirtual products. These offerings enable our customers to optimize their existing storage systems, build new virtualization solutions and facilitate their transition to cloud computing. 

Networking. Our networking offerings include switches, routers, wireless local area network ("WLAN") and network management products that deliver open, scalable, secure, agile, and consistent solutions that span the data center, campus and branch environments and deliver software-defined networking and unified communications capabilities. Our unified wired and wireless networking offerings include WLAN access points, controllers and switches. Our networking solutions are based on our FlexNetwork architecture, which is designed to enable simplified server virtualization, unified communications and business application delivery for the enterprise. Software-defined networking provides an end-to-end solution to automate the network from data center to campus and branch. 

Technology Services. Technology Services provides Support and Consulting services. Support services offerings span various levels of customer support needs and include: HPE Foundation Care, our portfolio of reactive hardware and software support services; HPE Proactive Care which combines remote support technology for real-time monitoring with rapid access to our technical experts; HPE Data Center Care, comprehensive, flexible end-to-end support that enables customers to build, operate or consume IT in private or hybrid cloud environments; and Lifecycle Event services, which are event based services, offering our technology expertise and advice for each phase of the technology life cycle. These services are available in the form of service contracts, pre-packaged offerings (HPE Care Pack services) or on a customized basis. Consulting services are focused on cloud mobility and big data and provide IT organizations with advice, design, implementation, migration and optimization of EG's platforms: servers, storage, networking and converged infrastructure. 

Software 

Our Software portfolio provides big data analytics and applications, application testing and delivery management, security and information governance, and IT operations management solutions for businesses and other enterprises of all sizes. Our Software offerings include licenses, support, professional services and software-as-a-service ("SaaS"). Our global business capabilities within Software are described below. 

Big Data Analytics and Applications. Our big data product group provides a full suite of software designed to help organizations capture, store, explore, analyze, protect and share information and insights within and outside their organizations to improve business outcomes. The suite includes HPE Vertica, the leading analytics database technology for machine, structured and semi-structured data; and HPE IDOL, a unique analytics tool for human information. Our big data platform, HPE Haven OnDemand, brings these unique assets together for processing and understanding machine and sensor data, business data and unstructured human information. A growing ecosystem of customers, partners and developers use this platform to build big-data driven analytic applications. They are augmented by our support and professional services offerings in order to provide an end-to-end solution to customers which is available via on-premise, as well as via SaaS and hybrid delivery models. 

Application Testing and Delivery Management. Our Application Delivery Management product group provides software that enables organizations to deliver high-performance applications, accelerating the application delivery life cycle and automating the testing processes to ensure the quality and scalability of desktop, web, mobile and cloud-based applications. 

Security and Information Governance. Our Security and Information Governance product group provides comprehensive solutions that span security and risk management, with a focus on protecting what matters most - users, applications and data, while also enabling customers to manage risks and meet legal obligations. Our enterprise security software is designed to disrupt fraud, hackers and cyber criminals by testing and scanning software and websites for security vulnerabilities, improving network defenses and security, implementing security controls, safeguarding data at rest, in motion and in use (regardless of where software and data reside), and providing security intelligent, analytics, and information management to identify threats and manage risk. Our information governance software provides solutions for archiving, data protection, eDiscovery, and enterprise content management. The combination of our security and information governance offerings allow us to deliver unique offerings that address our customers' evolving data needs. 

IT Operations Management. Our IT Operations Management product group provides the software required to automate routine IT tasks and to pinpoint IT problems as they occur, helping enterprises to reduce operational costs and improve the reliability of applications running in a traditional, cloud or hybrid environment. 

Enterprise Services 

ES provides technology consulting, outsourcing and support services across infrastructure, applications and business process domains in traditional and Strategic Enterprise Service ("SES") offerings, which includes analytics and data management, security and cloud services. ES leverages our investments in our consulting and support professionals, infrastructure technology, applications, standardized methodologies, and global supply and delivery capabilities. ES also creates opportunities for us to market additional hardware and software by offering solutions that leverage our other products and services in order to meet our clients' needs. 

Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing. Our Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing group delivers comprehensive services that streamline and help optimize our clients' technology infrastructure to efficiently enhance performance, reduce costs, mitigate risk, and enable business optimization. These services encompass the management of data centers, IT security, cloud computing, workplace technology, networks, unified communications, and enterprise service management. We also offer a set of managed services that provide a cross-section of our broader infrastructure services for smaller, discrete engagements. 

Application and Business Services. Our Application and Business Services portfolio helps our clients develop, revitalize and manage their applications and information assets. Our complete application life cycle approach encompasses application development, testing, modernization, system integration, maintenance, and management for both packaged and custom-built applications and cloud offerings. Our Application and Business Services portfolio also includes intellectual property-based industry solutions, along with technologies and related services, all of which help our clients better manage their critical industry processes for customer relationship management, finance and administration, human resources, payroll, and document processing. 

Financial Services 

FS provides flexible investment solutions for our customers&#8212;such as leasing, financing, IT consumption and utility programs&#8212;and asset management services that facilitate unique technology deployment models and the acquisition of complete IT solutions, including hardware, software and services from us and others. In order to provide flexible services and capabilities that support the entire IT life cycle, FS partners with our customers globally to help build investment strategies that enhance their business agility and support their business transformation. FS offers a wide selection of investment solution capabilities for large enterprise customers and channel partners, along with an array of financial options to SMBs and educational and governmental entities. 

Corporate Investments 

Corporate Investments includes Hewlett Packard Labs and certain cloud-related business incubation projects among others. 

Our Strengths 

We believe that we possess a number of competitive advantages that distinguish us from our competitors, including: 

Broad and deep end-to-end solutions portfolio. We combine our technology infrastructure, software and services capabilities to provide what we believe is the broadest and deepest portfolio of end-to-end enterprise solutions in the IT industry. Our ability to deliver a wide range of high-quality products and high-value consulting and support services in a single package is one of our principal differentiators. 

Multiyear innovation roadmap. We have been in the technology and innovation business for over 75 years. Our vast intellectual property portfolio and global research and development capabilities are part of a broader innovation roadmap designed to help organizations of all sizes journey from traditional technology platforms to the IT systems of the future&#8212;what we call the new style of IT&#8212;which we believe will be characterized by the increasing and interrelated prominence of cloud computing, big data, enterprise security, applications, and mobility. 

Global distribution and partner ecosystem. We are experts in delivering innovative technological solutions to our customers in complex multi-country, multi-vendor and/or multi-language environments. We have one of the largest go-to-market capabilities in our industry, including a large ecosystem of channel partners, which enables us to market and deliver our product offerings to customers located virtually anywhere in the world. 

Custom financial solutions. We have developed innovative financing solutions to facilitate the delivery of our products and services to our customers. We deliver flexible investment solutions and expertise that help customers and other partners create unique technology deployments based on specific business needs. 

Experienced leadership team with track record of successful performance. Our management team has an extensive track record of performance and execution. We are led by our Chief Executive Officer, Margaret C. Whitman, who has proven experience in developing transformative business models, building global brands and driving sustained growth and expansion in the technology industry, including from her leadership of HP Co. for four years prior to the Separation and her previous ten years as Chief Executive Officer of eBay Inc. Our senior management team has over 100 collective years of experience in our industry and possesses extensive knowledge of and experience in the enterprise IT business and the markets in which we compete. Moreover, we have a deep bench of management and technology talent that we believe provides us with an unparalleled pipeline of future leaders and innovators. 

Our Strategies 

Disruptive change is all around us, and we are living in an idea economy where the ability to turn an idea into a new product or a new industry is more accessible than ever. This environment requires a new style of business, underpinned by a new style of IT. Cloud, mobile, big data, and analytics provide the tools enterprises need to significantly reduce the time to market for any good idea. Hewlett Packard Enterprise's strategy is to enable customers to win in the idea economy by slashing the time it takes to turn an idea into value. 

We make IT environments more efficient, more productive and more secure, enabling fast, flexible responses to a rapidly changing competitive landscape. We enable organizations to act quickly on ideas by creating, consuming and reconfiguring new solutions, experiences and business models, and deliver infrastructure that is built from components that can be composed and recomposed easily and quickly to meet the shifting demands of business applications. 

Every IT journey is unique, but every customer is looking to minimize the time between initial idea and realized value. While some customers are looking for solutions that let them take the next step on this journey, the majority of customers are at 

the beginning of this journey and are looking for solutions that can help them take their first steps. Hewlett Packard Enterprise will leverage our leadership position in our traditional markets to lead the transition to this new style of business. 

Specifically, we are focused on delivering solutions to help customers transform four critical areas that matter most to their business. 

Transform to a hybrid infrastructure. Infrastructure matters more than ever today, but customers need a new kind of infrastructure. We help customers build an on-demand infrastructure and operational foundation for all of the applications that power the enterprise. With our cloud expertise, combined with our portfolio of traditional IT infrastructure and services, we are able to provide customized and seamless IT solutions for customers of all sizes and at all levels of technological sophistication. We are able to optimize our customers' applications regardless of form&#8212;traditional, mobile, in the cloud, or in the data center. 

Protect the digital enterprise. The threat landscape is wider and more diverse today than ever before. We offer complete risk management solutions, ranging from protection against security threats to data back-up and recovery, that help our customers protect themselves and their data in an increasingly volatile cybersecurity landscape. Our products and services are informed by our decades of IT security experience and enable customers to predict and disrupt threats, manage risk and compliance, and extend their internal security team. 

Empower the data-driven organization. We provide open-source solutions that allow customers to use 100% of their data, including business data, human data and machine data, to generate real-time, actionable insights. The result is better and faster decision making. 

Enable workplace productivity. We help customers deliver rich digital and mobile experiences to their customers, employees and partners. We offer an end-to-end mobility portfolio, from cloud infrastructure to customer-facing applications. Our infrastructure offerings leverage our cloud and security expertise to provide the backbone for secure mobile networks. Our integrated software offerings leverage our application expertise to provide intuitive interfaces for end-users. We also leverage our big data expertise to enable our customers to gain insight into the mobile user experience by monitoring and analyzing customer experience analytics. 

Sales, Marketing and Distribution 

We manage our business and report our financial results based on the segments described above. Our customers are organized by commercial and large enterprise groups, including business and public sector enterprises, and purchases of our products, solutions and services may be fulfilled directly by us or indirectly through a variety of partners, including: 

&#8226; 

resellers that sell our products and services, frequently with their own value-added products or services, to targeted customer groups; 

&#8226; 

distribution partners that supply our solutions to resellers; 

&#8226; 

original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") that integrate our products and services with their own products and services, and sell the integrated solution; 

&#8226; 

independent software vendors that provide their clients with specialized software products and often assist us in selling our products and services to clients purchasing their products; 

&#8226; 

systems integrators that provide expertise in designing and implementing custom IT solutions and often partner with us to extend their expertise or influence the sale of our products and services; and 

&#8226; 

advisory firms that provide various levels of management and IT consulting, including some systems integration work, and typically partner with us on client solutions that require our unique products and services. 

The mix of our business conducted by direct sales or channel differs substantially by business and region. We believe that customer buying patterns and different regional market conditions require us to tailor our sales, marketing and distribution efforts accordingly. We are focused on driving the depth and breadth of our coverage, in addition to identifying efficiencies and productivity gains, in both our direct and indirect businesses. While each of our business segments manages the execution of its own go-to-market and distribution strategy, our business segments also collaborate to ensure strategic and process alignment where appropriate. For example, we typically assign an account manager, generally from EG or ES, to manage relationships across our business with large enterprise customers. The account manager is supported by a team of specialists with product and services expertise. For other customers and for consumers, our business segments collaborate to manage relationships with commercial resellers targeting SMBs where appropriate. 

Manufacturing and Materials 

We utilize a significant number of outsourced manufacturers around the world to manufacture products that we design. The use of outsourced manufacturers is intended to generate cost efficiencies and reduce time to market for our products as well as maintain flexibility in our supply chain and manufacturing processes. In some circumstances, third-party OEMs produce products that we purchase and resell under our brand. In addition to our use of outsourced manufacturers, we currently manufacture a limited number of finished products from components and subassemblies that we acquire from a wide range of vendors. 

We utilize two primary methods of fulfilling demand for products: building products to order and configuring products to order. We build products to order to maximize manufacturing and logistics efficiencies by producing high volumes of basic product configurations. Alternatively, configuring products to order enables units to match a customer's particular hardware and software customization requirements. Our inventory management and distribution practices in both building products to order and configuring products to order seek to minimize inventory holding periods by taking delivery of the inventory and manufacturing shortly before the sale or distribution of products to our customers. 

We purchase materials, supplies and product subassemblies from a substantial number of vendors. For most of our products, we have existing alternate sources of supply or such alternate sources of supply are readily available. However, we do rely on sole sources for certain customized parts (although some of these sources have operations in multiple locations in the event of a disruption). We are dependent upon Intel and AMD as suppliers of x86 processors; however, we believe that disruptions with these suppliers would result in industry-wide dislocations and therefore would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors. 

Like other participants in the IT industry, we ordinarily acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our demand requirements for periods averaging 90 to 120 days. From time to time, we may experience significant price volatility or supply constraints for certain components that are not available from multiple sources or where our suppliers are geographically concentrated. When necessary, we are often able to obtain scarce components for somewhat higher prices on the open market, which may have an impact on our gross margin but does not generally disrupt production. We also may acquire component inventory in anticipation of supply constraints or enter into longer-term pricing commitments with vendors to improve the priority, price and availability of supply. See "Risk Factors&#8212;We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers properly." 

International 

Our products and services are available worldwide. We believe this geographic diversity allows us to meet demand on a worldwide basis for our customers, draws on business and technical expertise from a worldwide workforce, provides stability to our operations, provides revenue streams that may offset geographic economic trends, and offers us an opportunity to access new markets for maturing products. In addition, we believe that our future growth is dependent in part on our ability to develop products and sales models that target developing countries. In this regard, we believe that our broad geographic presence gives us a solid base on which to build such future growth. 

A summary of our domestic and international results is set forth in Note 2, "Segment Information", to the Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements. Approximately 61% of our overall net revenue in fiscal 2016 came from outside the United States. 

For a discussion of certain risks attendant to our international operations, see "Risk Factors&#8212;Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our business and financial performance," "&#8212;Recent global, regional and local economic weakness and uncertainty could adversely affect our business and financial performance," and "&#8212;We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates" in Item 1A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk" in Item 7A and Note 12, "Financial Instruments", to our Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements in Item 8, which are incorporated herein by reference. 

Research and Development 

Innovation is a key element of our culture and critical to our success. Our research and development efforts are focused on designing and developing products, services and solutions that anticipate customers' changing needs and desires and emerging technological trends. Our efforts also are focused on identifying the areas where we believe we can make a unique contribution and where partnering with other leading technology companies will leverage our cost structure and maximize our customers' experiences. 

Hewlett Packard Labs, together with the various research and development groups within our business segments, is responsible for our research and development efforts. Hewlett Packard Labs is part of our Corporate Investments segment. 

Expenditures for research and development were $2.3 billion in fiscal 2016, $2.3 billion in fiscal 2015 and $2.2 billion in fiscal 2014. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant research and development expenditures in the future to support the design and development of innovative, high-quality products, services and solutions to maintain and enhance our competitive position. For a discussion of risks attendant to our research and development activities, see "Risk Factors&#8212;If we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products, services and solutions, our business and financial performance may suffer." 

Patents 

Our general policy is to seek patent protection for those inventions likely to be incorporated into our products and services or where obtaining such proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. At present, our worldwide patent portfolio includes approximately 12,000 patents. 

Patents generally have a term of up to 20 years from the date they are filed. As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms of the individual patents across our patent portfolio vary. We believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and services, enhancing our freedom of action to sell our products and services in markets in which we choose to participate, and maximizing our return on research and development investments. No single patent is in itself essential to our company as a whole or to any of our business segments. 

In addition to developing our patent portfolio, we license intellectual property from third parties as we deem appropriate. We have also granted and continue to grant to others licenses and other rights under our patents when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. These license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties. 

For a discussion of risks attendant to intellectual property rights, see "Risk Factors&#8212;Our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend" and "&#8212;Our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties." 

Backlog 

We believe that our backlog is not a meaningful indicator of our future business prospects due to our diverse product and service portfolio, including the large volume of products delivered from finished goods or channel partner inventories and the shortening of product life cycles. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our overall business. 

Seasonality 

General economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. From time to time, the markets in which we sell our products, services and solutions experience weak economic conditions that may negatively affect sales. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products and services. For example, European sales are often weaker in the summer months. See Item 1A "Risk Factors&#8212;Our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable." 

Competition 

We have a broad technology portfolio of enterprise IT infrastructure products and solutions, multi-vendor customer services and IT management software and solutions. We believe we are the leader or among the leaders in each of our business segments. Nevertheless, we encounter strong competition in all areas of our business. We compete primarily on the basis of technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, and the availability of our application software and IT infrastructure offerings. 

The markets for each of our business segments are characterized by strong competition among major corporations with long-established positions and a large number of new and rapidly growing firms. Most product life cycles are relatively short, and to remain competitive we must develop new products and services, periodically enhance our existing products and services and compete effectively on the basis of the factors listed above, among others. In addition, we compete with many of our current and potential partners, including OEMs that design, manufacture and market their products under their own brand names. Our successful management of these competitive partner relationships is critical to our future success. Moreover, we anticipate that we will have to continue to adjust prices on many of our products and services to stay competitive. 

The competitive environments in which each segment operates are described below: 

Enterprise Group. EG operates in the highly competitive enterprise technology infrastructure market, which is characterized by rapid and ongoing technological innovation and price competition. Our primary competitors include technology vendors such as Dell Technologies Inc. ("Dell"), Cisco Systems, Inc. ("Cisco"), NetApp, Inc., Lenovo Group Ltd., International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM"), Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., Amazon.com, Inc. ("Amazon"), Oracle Corporation ("Oracle"), Fujitsu Limited ("Fujitsu"), Juniper Networks, Inc., Inspur Co., Ltd., Hitachi Ltd., Extreme Networks, Inc., Pure Storage, Inc., Brocade Communications Systems, Inc., VMware, Nutanix, Inc., Google Inc. and Rackspace Inc. In certain regions, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically branded or "white-box" manufacturers. Our strategy is to deliver superior products, high-value technology support services and differentiated integrated solutions that combine our infrastructure, software and services capabilities. Our competitive advantages include our broad end-to-end solutions portfolio, supported by our strong intellectual property portfolio and research and development capabilities, coupled with our global reach and partner ecosystem. 

Enterprise Services. ES competes in the IT services, consulting and integration, infrastructure technology outsourcing, business process outsourcing, and application services markets. Our primary competitors include IBM Global Services, Computer Sciences Corporation, systems integration firms such as Accenture plc, and offshore companies such as Fujitsu and India-based competitors Wipro Limited, Infosys Limited and Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. We also compete with other traditional hardware providers which are increasingly offering services to support their products, new players in emerging areas like cloud such as Amazon, and smaller local players. Many of our competitors offer a wide range of global services, and some of our competitors enjoy significant brand recognition. ES teams with many companies to offer services, and those arrangements allow us to extend our reach and augment our capabilities. Our competitive advantages include our deep technology expertise, especially in complex multi-country, multi-vendor and/or multi-language environments, our differentiated intellectual property, our strong track record of collaboration with clients and partners, and the combination of our expertise in infrastructure management with skilled global resources on platforms from SAP AG ("SAP"), Oracle and Microsoft, among others. 

Software. The markets in which our Software segment operates are characterized by rapidly changing customer requirements and technologies. We design and develop enterprise IT management software in competition with IBM, CA Technologies, Inc., VMware, BMC Software, Inc., and others. Our applications testing and delivery management software competes with products from companies like IBM, Microsoft, CA Technologies, and Atlassian Corporation Plc. Our big data solutions compete with products from companies like Adobe Systems Inc., IBM, Dell, Open Text Corporation, Oracle, and Symantec Corporation. We also deliver enterprise security/risk intelligence solutions that compete with products from Dell, IBM, Cisco, and Splunk Inc. Our information governance offerings, incorporating both structured and unstructured data, compete with products from companies like Veritas Technologies and Dell. As customers are becoming increasingly comfortable with newer delivery mechanisms such as SaaS, we are facing competition from smaller, less traditional competitors, particularly for customers with smaller IT organizations. Our differentiation lies in the breadth and depth of our software and services portfolio, our collaboration with EG and ES to provide comprehensive IT solutions and the scope of our market coverage. 

Financial Services. In our financing business, our competitors are captive financing companies, mainly IBM Global Financing, as well as banks and other financial institutions. We believe our competitive advantage over banks and other financial institutions in our financing business is our ability to deliver flexible investment solutions and expertise that help customers and other partners create unique technology deployments based on specific business needs. 

For a discussion of certain risks attendant to these competitive environments, see "Risk Factors&#8212;We operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance." 

Environment 

Our operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state, local, and foreign laws concerning the environment, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites. We could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. 

Many of our products are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws governing chemical substances in products and their safe use, including laws restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products and in some cases, laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances. Some of our products and services also are, or may in the future be, subject to requirements applicable to their energy consumption. In addition, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the 

chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use and their energy efficiency, including requirements relating to climate change. We are also subject to legislation in an increasing number of jurisdictions that makes producers of electrical goods, including servers and networking equipment, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment, and disposal of past and future covered products (sometimes referred to as "product take-back legislation"). In the event our products become non-compliant with these laws, our products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions and we could face other sanctions, including fines. 

Our operations, services and ultimately our products are expected to become increasingly subject to federal, state, local, and foreign laws, regulations and international treaties relating to climate change. As these laws, regulations, treaties, and similar initiatives and programs are adopted and implemented throughout the world, we will be required to comply or potentially face market access limitations or other sanctions, including fines. However, we believe that technology will be fundamental to finding solutions to achieve compliance with and manage those requirements, and we are collaborating with industry, business groups and governments to find and promote ways that our technology can be used to address climate change and to facilitate compliance with related laws, regulations and treaties. 

We are committed to maintaining compliance with all environmental laws applicable to our operations, products and services, and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of our business. We meet this commitment with a comprehensive environmental, health and safety policy, strict environmental management of our operations and worldwide environmental programs and services. 

Environmental costs and accruals are presently not material to our operations, cash flows or financial position. Although there is no assurance that existing or future environmental laws applicable to our operations, services or products will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows or financial condition, we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. 

Employees 

We had approximately 195,000 employees as of October 31, 2016. 

Additional Information 

Microsoft&#174; and Windows&#174; are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. Intel&#174;, Itanium&#174;, Intel&#174; Atom &#8482; , and Intel&#174; Itanium&#174; are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries. AMD is a trademark of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. UNIX&#174; is a registered trademark of The Open Group. 

Executive Officers 

The following are our current executive officers: 

Margaret C. Whitman; age 60; President and Chief Executive Officer 

Ms. Whitman has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Hewlett Packard Enterprise since November 2015. Prior to that, Ms. Whitman served as President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of HP Co. from July 2014 to November 2015 and President and Chief Executive Officer of HP Co. from September 2011 to November 2015. From March 2011 to September 2011, Ms. Whitman served as a part-time strategic advisor to Kleiner Perkins Caufield &#38; Byers, a private equity firm. Previously, Ms. Whitman served as President and Chief Executive Officer of eBay Inc., an online marketplace, from 1998 to 2008. Ms. Whitman also serves as a director of The Procter &#38; Gamble Company, a consumer goods company, and of HP Inc. and is a former director of Zipcar, Inc., a car sharing service. 

Henry Gomez; age 53; Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing and Communications Officer 

Mr. Gomez has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing and Communications Officer of Hewlett Packard Enterprise since November 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Gomez performed a similar role at HP Co. from August 2013 to November 2015. Previously, he served as Chief Communications Officer and Executive Vice President of HP Co. from January 2012 to July 2013. Prior to that, he ran HSG Communications, a consulting business that he founded in September 2008. He also served on the leadership team of Ms. Whitman's gubernatorial campaign from February 2009 to November 2010. From September 2011 to September 2013 he served as a director of BJ's Restaurants, Inc., a food service company. 

Christopher P. Hsu; age 46; Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Hewlett Packard Enterprise and General Manager, HPE Software 

Mr. Hsu has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer for Hewlett Packard Enterprise since November 2015 and General Manager, HPE Software since September 2016. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President, Organizational Performance and Hewlett Packard Enterprise Separation Leader at HP Co. from May 2014 to November 2015. Prior to joining HP Co., he served as Managing Director at Kohlberg Kravis Roberts ("KKR"), an investment firm, from December 2013 to May 2014 and as Director of KKR Capstone, a consulting firm, from November 2008 to December 2013. 

Kirt P. Karros; age 47; Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer 

Mr. Karros has served as Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer at Hewlett Packard Enterprise since November 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Karros performed a similar role at HP Co. as well as leading Investor Relations from May 2015 to October 2015. Previously, Mr. Karros served as a Principal and Managing Director of Research for Relational Investors LLC, an investment fund, from 2001 to May 2015. Mr. Karros served as a director of PMC-Sierra, a semiconductor company, from August 2013 to May 2015. 

Alan May; age 58; Executive Vice President, Human Resources 

Mr. May has served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources at Hewlett Packard Enterprise since June 2015. Before joining Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Mr. May served as Vice President, Human Resources at Boeing Commercial Aircraft, a division of The Boeing Company, from April 2013 to June 2015. Previously, Mr. May served as Vice President of Human Resources for Boeing Defense, Space and Security at Boeing from April 2011 to June 2015 and as Vice President, of Compensation, Benefits and Strategy at Boeing from August 2007 to April 2011. 

Michael G. Nefkens; age 47; Executive Vice President and General Manager, Enterprise Services 

Mr. Nefkens has served as Executive Vice President and General Manager, Enterprise Services at Hewlett Packard Enterprise since November 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Nefkens performed a similar role at HP Co. from December 2012 to November 2015, having been appointed to the role in an acting capacity in August 2012. Previously, Mr. Nefkens served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Enterprise Services in the EMEA region at HP Co. from November 2009 to August 2012. 

Antonio Neri; age 49; Executive Vice President and General Manager, Enterprise Group 

Mr. Neri has served as Executive Vice President and General Manager, Enterprise Group at Hewlett Packard Enterprise since November 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Neri served as Senior Vice President and General Manager, Enterprise Group at HP Co. from October 2014 to November 2015. Previously, he served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the HP Servers business from September 2013 to October 2014 and concurrently as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the HP Networking business unit from May 2014 to October 2014. Prior to that, Mr. Neri served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the HP Technology Services business unit from August 2011 to September 2013 and as Senior Vice President, Customer Services for the HP Personal Systems Group from 1995 until August 2011. From March 2012 to February 2013, Mr. Neri served as a director of MphasiS Limited, a technology company. 

Jeff T. Ricci; age 55; Senior Vice President, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer 

Mr. Ricci has served as Senior Vice President, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer at Hewlett Packard Enterprise since November 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Ricci performed a similar role at HP Co. from April 2014 to November 2015. Previously, Mr. Ricci served as Controller and Principal Accounting Officer at HP Co. on an interim basis from November 2013 to April 2014. Prior to that, Mr. Ricci served as Vice President of Finance for HP Co.'s Technology and Operations organization from May 2012 to November 2013. Mr. Ricci served as HP Co.'s Vice President of Finance for Global Accounts and HP Financial Services from March 2011 to May 2012 and Vice President of Finance for HP Software from March 2009 to March 2011. 

John F. Schultz; age 52; Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary 

Mr. Schultz has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Hewlett Packard Enterprise since November 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Schultz performed a similar role at HP Co. from April 2012 to November 2015. Previously, he served as Deputy General Counsel for Litigation, Investigations and Global Functions at HP Co. from September 2008 to April 2012. From March 2005 to September 2008, Mr. Schultz was a partner in the litigation practice at Morgan, Lewis &#38; Bockius LLP, a law firm, where, among other clients, he supported HP Co. as external counsel on a variety of litigation and regulatory matters. 

Timothy C. Stonesifer; age 49; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Mr. Stonesifer has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at Hewlett Packard Enterprise since November 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Stonesifer acted as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Enterprise Group at HP Co. from February 2014 to November 2015. Before joining HP Co., he served as Chief Financial Officer of General Motors International Operations, an automotive company, from May 2011 to January 2014. Previously, he served as Chief Financial Officer of Alegco Scotsman, a storage company, from June 2010 to May 2011. Prior to that, Mr. Stonesifer served as Chief Financial Officer of Sabic Innovative Plastics (formerly GE Plastics) from August 2007 to June 2010 after having served in various other positions at General Electric since joining the company in 1989. 

Available Information 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at http://investors.hpe.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish those reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Hewlett Packard Enterprise's Corporate Governance Guidelines, Board of Directors' committee charters (including the charters of the Audit Committee, Finance and Investment Committee, HR and Compensation Committee, Technology Committee, and Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility Committee) and code of ethics entitled "Standards of Business Conduct" are also available at that same location on our website. Stockholders may request free copies of these documents from: 

Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company 

Attention: Investor Relations 

3000 Hanover Street 

Palo Alto, CA 94304 

http://investors.hpe.com/financial/requested-printed-reports 

