 Item 1 - Business 

As used herein, the terms &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;Kimball,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221; refer to Kimball International, Inc., the Registrant, and its subsidiaries. Reference to a year relates to a fiscal year, ended June 30 of the year indicated, rather than a calendar year unless the context indicates otherwise. Additionally, references to the first, second, third, and fourth quarters refer to those respective quarters of the fiscal year indicated. 

Spin-Off of Kimball Electronics reported as Discontinued Operations 

On October 31, 2014 (&#8220;Distribution Date&#8221;), we completed the spin-off of our Electronic Manufacturing Services (&#8220;EMS&#8221;) segment by distributing the related shares of Kimball Electronics, Inc. (&#8220;Kimball Electronics&#8221;), on a pro rata basis, to the Company&#8217;s Share Owners of record as of October 22, 2014. After the Distribution Date, the Company no longer beneficially owns any Kimball Electronics shares and Kimball Electronics is an independent publicly traded company. Kimball International, Inc. trades on the NASDAQ under the ticker symbol &#8220;KBAL&#8221; and Kimball Electronics, Inc. trades on the NASDAQ under the ticker symbol &#8220;KE&#8221;. See Note 2 - Spin-Off Transaction &#32;of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the spin-off of our EMS segment. 

On October 30, 2014, holders of a sufficient number of shares of Class A common stock converted such shares into Class B common stock such that the number of outstanding shares of Class A common stock was, after such conversions, less than 15% of the total number of issued and outstanding shares of both Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Pursuant to the Company&#8217;s Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation when the number of shares of Class A common stock issued and outstanding was reduced to less than 15% of the total number of issued and outstanding shares of both Class A common stock and Class B common stock, then all of the rights, preferences, limitations and restrictions relating to Class B common stock became the same as the rights, preferences, limitations and restrictions of Class A common stock, without any further action of or by the Company&#8217;s Share Owners. In addition, all distinctions between Class A common stock and Class B common stock were eliminated so that all shares of Class B common stock are equal to shares of Class A common stock with respect to all matters, including without limitation, dividend payments and voting rights. The elimination of such distinctions, which occurred on October 30, 2014, is referred to as the &#8220;stock unification.&#8221; As a result of the stock unification, Class A common stock and Class B common stock now vote as a single class (except as otherwise required by applicable law) on all matters submitted to a vote of the Company&#8217;s Share Owners. We deregistered our shares of Class A common stock under the Exchange Act effective in September 2015. Deregistration did not affect the rights of Share Owners who chose to continue to hold their Class A shares. 

&#32;3 

The following disclosures within this Part I have been recast to describe the continuing operations of Kimball International, Inc. after the spin-off. 

Overview 

Kimball was incorporated in Indiana in 1939. Our corporate headquarters is located at 1600 Royal Street, Jasper, Indiana. 

We create design driven, innovative furnishings sold through our family of brands: Kimball Office, National Office Furniture, and Kimball Hospitality. Our diverse portfolio offers solutions for the workplace, learning, healing, and hospitality environments. Dedicated to our Guiding Principles, our values and integrity are evidenced by public recognition as a highly trusted company and employer of choice. &#8220;We Build Success&#8221; by establishing long-term relationships with customers, employees, suppliers, share owners and the communities in which we operate. 

Kimball has been in the furniture business since 1950. Our core markets include furniture sold under the Kimball Office, National Office Furniture, and Kimball Hospitality brand names. Through each of these brands, the Company offers a wide range of possibilities for creating functional environments that convey just the right image for each unique setting, as furniture solutions are tailored to the end user&#8217;s needs and demands. The workplace model is evolving to optimize human interaction, and Kimball Office and National Office Furniture provide furniture solutions which create spaces where people can connect. Our rich wood heritage and craftsmanship remain, while new products and mixed materials integrate our product portfolio, satisfying the marketplace&#8217;s need for multifunctional, open accommodations throughout all industries. Our furniture solutions are used in collaborative and open work space areas, conference and meeting/huddle rooms, training rooms, private offices, learning areas, lobby/reception areas, and dining/caf&#233; areas with a vast mix of wood, metal, laminate, paint, and fabric options. Products include modern and classic desks, credenzas, seating, tables, collaborative workstations, panel systems, filing and storage units, and accessories/accents. In addition, the Company offers several products designed specifically for the growing healthcare market such as patient room and lounge seating and casegoods. In the hospitality industry, Kimball Hospitality works with designers to create furniture which extends the unique ambiance of a property into guest rooms and public spaces by providing furniture solutions for hotel properties and mixed use developments. Products include, but are not limited to, headboards, desks, tables, dressers, entertainment centers, chests, wall panels, upholstered seating, task seating, cabinets, and vanities with a broad mix of wood, metal, stone, laminate, finish, and fabric options. The Company also has a trucking fleet and customer fulfillment centers to facilitate prompt delivery of products. Certain logistics services, such as backhauls, are sold on a contract basis, but the sales level is immaterial. 

Production currently occurs in Company-owned or leased facilities located in the United States. We also engage with third-party manufacturers within the U.S. as well as internationally to produce select finished goods and accessories for our brands. In the United States, we have manufacturing facilities and showrooms in nine states and the District of Columbia. Financial information by geographic area for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2016 is included in Note 15 - Geographic Information &#32;of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated herein by reference. 

Recent Business Changes 

Capacity Utilization Restructuring Plan 

In November 2014, we announced a capacity utilization restructuring plan which included the consolidation of our metal fabrication production from an operation located in Post Falls, Idaho, into existing production facilities in Indiana, and the reduction of our Company plane fleet from two jets to one. 

The transfer of work from our Idaho facility involved the start-up of metal fabrication capabilities in an existing Company-owned facility, along with the transfer of certain assembly operations into two additional existing Company-owned facilities, all located in southern Indiana. All production was transferred out of the Idaho facility as of March 2016. Work continues in the Indiana facilities to train employees, ramp-up production and eliminate the inefficiencies associated with the start-up of production in these facilities. We anticipate the improvement of customer delivery, supply chain dynamics, and reduction of transportation costs will generate annual pre-tax savings of approximately $5 million, with savings beginning to ramp up in our first quarter ending September 2016. We expect to achieve the full quarterly savings level by the end of our second quarter ending December 31, 2016. As of June 30, 2016 the Idaho facility and land was classified as held for sale as it was being actively marketed for sale. Subsequent to June 30, 2016, we sold the Idaho facility and land which is explained in Note 21 - Subsequent Events &#32;of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The reduction of our plane fleet from two jets to one reduced our cost structure while aligning the plane fleet size with our needs following the spin-off of Kimball Electronics on October 31, 2014. Previously, one of our jets was used primarily for the successful strategy of transporting customers to visit our showrooms, offices, research and development center, and 

&#32;4 

manufacturing locations, while the remaining jet was used primarily for management travel. The plane used primarily for management travel was sold in the third quarter of fiscal year 2015, and as a result, we began realizing the expected annual pre-tax savings of $0.8 million. In regards to the remaining jet, we believe that our location in rural Jasper, Indiana and the location of our manufacturing locations in small towns away from major metropolitan areas necessitates the need for the remaining jet to efficiently transport customers. 

Other Recent Business Changes 

Production within our existing facilities expanded in fiscal years 2015 and 2013 to manufacture select hospitality furniture products domestically, improving our ability to meet customer requests for shorter lead times. 

Seasonality 

The impact of seasonality on our revenue includes lower sales in the third quarter of our fiscal year due to the buying season of the government and lower sales of hospitality furniture during times of high hotel occupancy such as the summer months. 

Locations 

As of June 30, 2016 , the Company&#8217;s products were primarily produced at ten &#32;plants: seven &#32;located in Indiana, two &#32;in Kentucky, and one in Virginia. In addition, select finished goods are purchased from domestic and foreign sources. As described above, our facility in Idaho was classified as held for sale as of June 30, 2016 and has subsequently been sold. The Company continually assesses manufacturing capacity and adjusts such capacity as necessary. 

In addition, a facility in Indiana houses an education center for dealer and employee training, a research and development center (American Association for Laboratory Accreditation certified), and a product showroom. Furniture showrooms are maintained in eight additional cities in the United States. Office space is leased in Dongguan, Guangdong, China and Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam to facilitate sourcing of select finished goods and components from the Asia Pacific Region. 

Marketing Channels 

Our furniture is marketed by sales representatives to end users, office furniture dealers, wholesalers, brokers, designers, purchasing companies, and catalog houses throughout North America and on an international basis. Customers can access our products globally through a variety of distribution channels. 

We categorize our sales by the following vertical markets: 

Commercial - The largest portion of our business is in the commercial market. We are a full-facility provider offering products for a variety of office applications including: private office, collaborative and open plan, lobby-lounge, conferencing and meeting/huddle, training, dining/caf&#233;, learning, lobby and reception, and everything in between. 

Education - Whether K-12, higher education, vocational training or any other learning institution, we understand that furniture for education needs to enhance learning and social environments. We offer flexible, collaborative, and technology-driven furnishings that we believe will make students and faculty more productive and comfortable. 

Finance &#32;- Banking and financial offices require affordable, functional, and stylish environments. Our versatile and flexible furnishings offer sophisticated styles for reception areas, employee work spaces, executive offices, and boardrooms. 

Government - We supply office furniture including desks, tables, seating, bookcases and filing and storage units for federal, state, and local government offices, as well as other government related entities. We hold two Federal Supply Service contracts with the General Services Administration (&#8220;GSA&#8221;) that are subject to government subcontract reporting requirements. We also partner with multiple general purchasing organizations which assist public agencies such as state and local governments with office furniture purchases. The U.S. government, as well as state and local governments, can typically terminate or modify their contracts with us either at their discretion or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract, which could expose us to liability and impede our ability to compete in the future for contracts and orders. During fiscal year 2016, sales related to our GSA contracts were approximately 8.9% of total Kimball International, Inc. sales, with one contract accounting for approximately 5.0% of total Kimball International, Inc. sales and the other contract accounting for approximately 3.9% of Kimball International, Inc. sales. 

Healthcare - We are focused on better outcomes for patients, their families, the staff that heals them, and the environments surrounding them by offering products to value-conscious healthcare customers, including hospitals, clinics, physician office buildings, long-term care facilities, and assisted living facilities throughout the country. 

Hospitality &#32;- We offer a complete package of product and service support to the hospitality industry. We partner with the most recognized hotel brands to meet their specific requirements for properties throughout the world. 

&#32;5 

A table showing our net sales by end market vertical is included in Part II, Item 7 - Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . 

Major Competitive Factors 

Our products are sold in the office furniture and hospitality furniture industries. These industries have similar major competitive factors which include price in relation to quality and appearance, the utility of the product, supplier lead time, reliability of on-time delivery, sustainability, and the ability to respond to requests for special and non-standard products. We offer payment terms similar to industry standards and in unique circumstances may grant alternate payment terms. 

Certain industries are more price sensitive than others, but all expect on-time, damage-free delivery. We maintain sufficient finished goods inventories to be able to offer prompt shipment of most of our own lines of hospitality furniture. In addition to the many options available on our standard furniture products, custom furniture is produced to customer specifications and shipping timelines on a project basis. Many of our office furniture products are shipped through our delivery system, which we believe offers the ability to reduce damage to product, enhance scheduling flexibility, and improve the capability for on-time deliveries. 

&#32; Competitors 

There are numerous furniture manufacturers competing within the marketplace, with a significant number of competitors offering similar products. 

Our competition includes furniture manufacturers such as Steelcase Inc., Herman Miller, Inc., Knoll, Inc., HNI Corporation, and several other privately-owned furniture manufacturers. 

&#32; Working Capital 

The Company does not believe that it, or the industry in general, has any special practices or special conditions affecting working capital items that are significant for understanding our furniture business. The Company does receive advance payments from customers on select furniture projects primarily in the hospitality industry. 

&#32; Raw Material Availability 

Certain components used in the production of furniture are manufactured internally and are generally readily available, as are other raw materials used in the production of wood and non-wood furniture. Certain fabricated seating components and wood frame assemblies as well as finished furniture products, which are generally readily available, are sourced on a global scale in an effort to provide quality products at the lowest total cost. 

&#32;Order Backlog 

The aggregate sales price of products pursuant to worldwide open orders, which may be canceled by the customer, was as follows: 

(Amounts in Millions) 

June 30, 2016 

&#160; 

June 30, 2015 

Order Backlog of Continuing Operations 

$ 

129.9 

&#160; 

$ 

111.9 

Substantially all of the open orders as of June 30, 2016 &#32;are expected to be filled within the next fiscal year. Open orders may not be indicative of future sales trends. 

&#32;Research and Development 

Research and development activities include the development of manufacturing processes, engineering and testing procedures, major process improvements, new product development and product redesign, information technology initiatives, and wood related technologies. 

Research and development costs were approximately: 

&#160; 

Year Ended June 30 

(Amounts in Millions) 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Research and Development Costs of Continuing Operations 

$6 

&#160; 

$7 

&#160; 

$7 

&#32;6 

&#32;Intellectual Property 

In connection with our business operations, we hold both trademarks and patents in various countries and continuously have additional pending trademarks and patents. The intellectual property which we believe to be the most significant to the Company includes: Kimball, National, Epicenter, Waveworks, and Xsite, which are all registered trademarks. Our patents expire at various times depending on the patent&#8217;s date of issuance. 

&#32;Environment and Energy Matters 

Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations with respect to environmental matters. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with present laws and regulations and that there are no material liabilities related to such items. 

We are dedicated to excellence, leadership, and stewardship in matters of protecting the environment and communities in which we have operations. Reinforcing our commitment to the environment, seven of our showrooms and two non-manufacturing locations were designed under the guidelines of the U.S. Green Building Council&#8217;s LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) for Commercial Interiors program. One manufacturing facility was designed under the LEED Operations and Maintenance program guidelines. We believe that continued compliance with foreign, federal, state, and local laws and regulations which have been enacted relating to the protection of the environment will not have a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. We believe capital expenditures for environmental control equipment during the two fiscal years ending June 30, 2018, will not represent a material portion of total capital expenditures during those years. 

Our manufacturing operations require the use of natural gas and electricity. Federal and state regulations may control the allocation of fuels available to us, but to date we have experienced no interruption of production due to such regulations. In our wood furniture manufacturing plants, a portion of energy requirements are satisfied internally by the use of our own scrap wood produced during the manufacturing of product. 

&#32;Employees 

&#160; 

June 30 2016 

&#160; 

June 30 2015 

United States 

3,015 

&#160; 

2,828 

Foreign Countries 

&#160; 

Total Employees 

3,081 

&#160; 

2,894 

Our U.S. operations and foreign sites are not subject to collective bargaining arrangements. We believe that our employee relations are good. 

&#32;Available Information 

The Company makes available free of charge through its website, http://www.ir.kimball.com, its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. All reports the Company files with the SEC are also available via the SEC website, http://www.sec.gov, or may be read and copied at the SEC Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The Company&#8217;s Internet website and the information contained on, or accessible through, such website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

