 Item 1. BUSINES S 

General 

S | T | O | R | E is an internally managed net &#8209;lease real estate investment trust, or REIT, that is the leader in the acquisition, investment and management of S ingle T enant O perational R eal E state, or STORE Properties, which is our target market and the inspiration for our name. A STORE Property is a real property location at which a company operates its business and generates sales and profits, which makes the location a profit center and, therefore, fundamentally important to that business. 

S|T|O|R|E continues the investment activities of our senior leadership team, which has been investing in single &#8209;tenant operational real estate for over 35 years. We are one of the largest and fastest &#8209;growing net &#8209;lease REITs, and own a large, well &#8209;diversified portfolio that consists of investments in 1,325 property locations operated by more than 300 customers across 46 states as of December 31, 2015. Our customers operate across a wide variety of industries within the service, retail and industrial sectors of the U.S. economy, with restaurants, movie theaters, health clubs, early childhood education centers and furniture stores representing the top industries in our portfolio. 

The following table depicts the growth in our investment portfolio since our inception in 2011. 

O ur T otal I nvestment P ortfolio at Quarter End 

We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to in this Annual Report as the &#x201C;Code,&#x201D; commencing with our initial taxable year ended December 31, 2011. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must continue to meet certain tests which, among other things, generally require that our assets consist primarily of real estate assets, our income be derived primarily from real estate assets, and that we distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (other than our net capital gains) to our stockholders annually. 

Prior to December 7, 2015, we were a &#x201C;controlled company&#x201D; (within the meaning of the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE) because a large portion of our common stock was owned indirectly by certain investment funds managed by Oaktree Capital Management, L.P., or Oaktree. As of the closing of an equity offering of our common stock on December 7, 2015, Oaktree&#x2019;s indirect ownership of the outstanding shares of our common stock fell to just under 50%. As a result, we no longer are a controlled company and no longer qualify for exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Subsequent to December 31, 2015, Oaktree&#x2019;s indirect ownership of the outstanding shares of our common stock fell to just under 40% as a result of a secondary offering by STORE Holding Company, LLC, or STORE Holding, the entity through which Oaktree owns its indirect interest in our common stock. Oaktree is a global investment management firm specializing in alternative investments with approximately $97 billion in assets under management as of December 31, 2015. 

2015 Highlights 

&#xB7; 

During the year ended December 31, 2015, we invested over $1.2 billion in 394 property locations. 

&#xB7; 

For the year ended December 31, 2015, we declared dividends totaling $1.04 per share of common stock to our stockholders. In the third quarter of 2015, we raised our quarterly dividend 8% from our previous quarterly dividend amount. 

&#xB7; 

As of December 31, 2015, our total gross investment in real estate had reached approximately $4.0 billion, of which $1.6 billion is unencumbered. Our long-term outstanding debt totaled $1.8 billion at December 31, 2015, up from $1.3 billion at the end of 2014; approximately $1.6 billion of our total long-term debt is secured debt and approximately $2.4 billion of our investment portfolio serves as collateral for these outstanding borrowings. 

&#xB7; 

In April 2015, we issued our sixth series of A+ rated STORE Master Funding net-lease mortgage notes payable, aggregating $365 million in principal amount. 

&#xB7; 

During 2015, we received a BBB- rating from Fitch Rating s, Inc. and, in November 2015, we closed on our inaugural offering of investment-grade senior unsecured notes in an aggregate pr incipal amount of $175 million. 

&#xB7; 

During 2015, we completed two follow-on public offerings in which we issued and sold an aggregate of 25,562,500 shares of our common stock and STORE Holding sold an aggregate of 11,812,500 shares from its holdings of our common stock. We received proceeds aggregating $521 million, net of underwriters&#x2019; discounts and offering expenses, in connection with these offerings. 

&#xB7; 

On December 1, 2015, we filed a &#x201C;shelf&#x201D; registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which allows us to sell from time to time various securities, including additional shares of our common stock and debt securities. At the same time we filed our shelf registration statement, we also filed a shelf registration statement on behalf of our principal stockholder, STORE Holding, which allows it to sell shares of our common stock owned by it from time to time. STORE Holding is owned, directly or indirectly, by certain investment funds managed by Oaktree. 

Our Target Market 

We are the leader in providing real estate financing solutions principally to middle &#8209;market and larger businesses that own STORE Properties and operate within the broad-based service, retail and industrial sectors of the U.S. economy. Our net &#8209;lease solutions are designed to provide a long &#8209;term, lower &#8209;cost way to i mprove our customers &#x2019; capital structures and, thus, be a preferred alternative to real estate ownership. We estimate the market for STORE Properties to exceed $2 .5 trillion in market value and to include more than 1. 6 million properties. 

We define middle &#8209;market companies as those having approximate annual gross revenues of between $20 million and $300 million, although some of our customers have annual revenues substantially in excess of $300 million. Most of our customers do not have credit ratings, while some have ratings from rating agencies that service insurance companies or fixed &#8209;income investors. Most of these non- rated companies either prefer to be un rated or are simply too small to issue debt rated by a nationally recognized rating agency in a cost &#8209;efficient manner. 

The financing marketplace for STORE Properties is highly fragmented, with few participants addressing the long &#8209;term capital needs of middle &#8209;market and larger non-rated companies. While we believe our net &#8209;lease financing solutions can add value to a wide variety of companies, we believe the largest underserved market and, therefore, our greatest opportunity is non-rated, bank &#8209;dependent, middle &#8209;market and larger companies that generally have less access to efficient sources of long &#8209;term capital. 

We believe the demand for our net &#8209;lease solutions is even greater today as a result of the current bank regulatory environment. In our view, the increased scrutiny and regulation of the banking industry over the past several years in response to the collapse of the housing and mortgage industries from 2007 to 2009, particularly with the passage of the Dodd &#8209;Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 , or the Dodd - Frank Act, and the Basel Accords issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, have made commercial banks even less responsive to the long &#8209;term capital needs of the middle &#8209;market companies we target. These companies have historically depended on commercial banks for much of their financing. 

S | T | O | R | E was formed to capitalize on this market opportunity and address the capital needs of middle &#8209;market and larger non-rated companies by offering them a superior alternative to financing their profit &#8209;center real estate with traditional mortgage or bank debt and their own equity. We believe our opportunities include both gaining market 

share from the fragmented network of net &#8209;lease capital providers and growing the market by creating demand for our net &#8209;lease solutions that meet the long &#8209;term real estate capital needs of these companies. 

Our target market of STORE Properties is divided into three primary sectors and various sub-sectors . The primary sectors and their proportion of our target market are service at 47%, retail at 37% and industrial at 16%. The sub-sectors included within each primary sector are summarized in the table below. 

Service 

Retail 

Industrial 

Restaurants 

Big box retail 

Industrial profit-centers 

Education 

Specialty retail 

Light manufacturing 

Fitness centers 

Grocery 

Transportation 

Drug stores 

Automotive services 

Automotive (new and used) 

Family entertainment 

Within the sub &#8209;sectors, the market for STORE Properties is further subdivided into a wide variety of industries within the service, retail and industrial sectors, such as: 

Automotive parts stores 

Movie theaters 

Cold storage facilities 

Office supplies retailers 

Department stores 

Pet care facilities 

Discount stores 

Rental centers 

Early childhood education 

Secondary education 

Furniture stores 

Supermarkets 

Entertainment facilities 

Truck stops 

Fast food restaurants 

Wholesale clubs 

Full service restaurants 

Many of these industries are represented within our diverse property portfolio. 

Our Asset Class: STORE Properties 

Single Tenant Operational Real Estate, or STORE Properties, is a unique asset class that inspired the formation of S|T|O|R|E and our company name. STORE Properties are profit-center real estate locations on which our tenants conduct their businesses and generate their revenues and profits. The defining characteristic of STORE Properties is the number of payment sources: STORE Properties have the following three payment sources, whereas all other commercial real estate assets have just two. 

&#xB7; 

Unit-Level Profitability : STORE Properties are distinguished by the primary source of their rent payment, which comes directly from the profits produced by the business operations at the real estate locations we own, which we refer to as &#x201C;unit-level profitability.&#x201D; While it is a common perception that the tenant is the primary source of the rent payment (as distinguished from the business unit operating at the leased site), the historic pattern we have observed is tenants in corporate insolvencies vacating unprofitable locations and retaining profitable ones, which indicates that the profitability of the location is the main indicator of payment. Because tenants historically retain profitable locations and vacate unprofitable ones in the event of insolvency, it is fundamentally important for S|T|O|R|E to collect and review the unit-level financial statements of our tenants at our real estate locations, which is a key component of our business model. As of December 31, 2015, we receive unit-level financial statements on approximately 95% of the properties in our portfolio (based on annualized base rent and interest). Without having access to unit-level financial reporting for the business activities conducted on the properties we own, we would not have an accurate assessment of the essential nature of our real estate to our customer&#x2019;s business; without this, we would be speculating about the quality of the most important, and primary, payment source. 

&#xB7; 

Tenant Credit Quality . In addition to the unit-level profitability of the business on the real estate we own, credit quality serves as an additional, but not primary, source of payment. The tenant&#x2019;s credit can become the primary payment source if our unit is not profitable and the tenant is required to divert cash flows from its other units or other resources to pay our rents. However, we have seen that tenant credit quality tends to be subject to greater volatility over time than unit-level profitability, because tenant credit quality is not only a function of the unit-level profitability of the operations at our locations, but of the profitability of potentially many other existing and new assets owned and operated by our tenant. Corporate financial health is also a function of many other decisions, such as capital structure or growth strategies, as well as conditions in the marketplace for the tenant&#x2019;s products and services, which can change over time and which may have profound impacts on tenant creditworthiness. 

&#xB7; 

Real Estate Residual Value . The other payment source that is common to all real estate investments (and is the third of our three payment sources) is the residual value of the underlying real estate, which gives us the opportunity to receive rents from other substitute tenants in the ev ent our asset becomes vacant. For S|T|O|R|E, this means more than just looking at broad lease rate and transaction comparables. Studies we have done underscore the importance of investing in properties at or below their as-new replacement costs. We also review the local markets in which our properties are located and seek to have rents that are at or below prevailing market rents on a per square foot basis for comparable properties . Taking these steps protects S|T|O|R|E and our customer s by making it easier for us to assign, sell or sublease properties that our customers may want to sell, reposition or vacate as part of their capital efficiency strategy. 

The following diagram illustrates the three sources of payment that are common among STORE Properties: 

The S|T|O|R|E Credit Pyramid 

The investment, management and capitalization competencies we have developed over more than 35 years, like our credit pyramid, arise from the distinctive characteristics of the large asset class of STORE Properties we address. 

Our Competitive Strengths 

Our objective is to build upon our market &#8209;leading platform for the acquisition, investment and management of STORE Properties that simultaneously creates value for stockholders and customers through our five corporate 

competencies. Each member of our senior leadership team is primarily responsible for one of our five competencies, which are described below: 

&#xB7; 

Investment Origination . S|T|O|R|E was formed to fill a need for efficient long-term real estate capital for middle-market and larger customers. We do this principally by creating lease contracts that address our customers&#x2019; needs and create strong alignments of interest that benefit our stockholders. Our solutions-oriented approach strives to create superior value for our customers over other financial options they may have to capitalize their businesses. As a result, more than 75% of our investments, by dollar volume, have been originated by our internal origination team through direct customer relationships. By creating demand for our services, and not simply taking market share or aggregating assets, we have maintained a large pipeline of investment opportunities, which we estimate to be $7.4 billion as of December 31, 2015. Our objective is to be both selective and achieve higher rates of return than our stockholders could achieve if they sought to acquire profit-center real estate on their own. 

&#xB7; 

Investment Underwriting . Our methods of risk evaluation have been developed by our senior leadership team over 35 years, with investments of more than $13 billion and over 8,500 STORE Property assets. Our investment underwriting approach centers on evaluations of unit-level and corporate-level financial performance, together with detailed real estate valuation assessments. These three areas represent our credit pyramid, which is reflective of the characteristics of the STORE Property asset class. At S|T|O|R|E, we have combined our underwriting approach with our portfolio management systems to capture tenant credit ratings and lease contract ratings (referred to as a STORE Score) as tools to monitor ongoing portfolio performance. Our collective experience has enabled us to develop sophisticated risk evaluation tools and insights that are designed to offer greater risk-adjusted investment results than those available to most real estate investors. 

The following table compares our tenant credit ratings (determined using Moody&#x2019;s Risk C alc) with the STORE Score: 

&#xB7; 

Investment Documentation . We believe lease contracts, and not tenant credit quality, are the principal determinants of investment risk. Part of contract creation is embodied in the investment underwriting process, which focuses on the prices we pay for the real estate; the unit-level profitability of the businesses operated on our real estate; the rents and escalations we receive; and the support offered to the investment by tenant credit quality. These factors are ultimately incorporated into our contracts and supported by third party diligence, including appraisals, property condition reports, environmental reports and other diligence. Finally, the contracts we create foster alignments of interest through the use of features such as master leases and bankruptcy-remote investment structures. Altogether, our documentation process, like our approach to underwriting, has evolved over decades and, we believe, offers investors in S|T|O|R|E a value that most could not create for themselves. 

&#xB7; 

Portfolio Management . Net-lease real estate investment portfolios require active management to realize superior risk-adjusted rates of return. S|T|O|R|E represents our senior leadership team&#x2019;s third, and most highly developed and scalable, servicing platform. We are virtually paperless and have access to detailed information on our large diversified portfolio from practically anywhere and anytime. For over 35 years, our senior leadership team has learned how to monitor unit-level profit and loss statements, tenant corporate financial statements and the timely payment of property taxes and insurance in order to gauge portfolio quality. Having such systems helps us effectively monitor and reduce tenant credit risk at the property level, which, in turn, allows us to place greater focus on the minority of investments that may have a higher risk potential to experience future problems. We believe these systems, when combined with our high degree of financial and operating flexibility, allow us to realize better stockholder risk-adjusted rates of return on our invested capital. 

&#xB7; 

Financial Reporting and Treasury . We consider and evaluate our corporate financing strategies with the same emphasis as our real estate investment strategies. Under our financing strategy, borrowings must prudently improve stockholder returns; they must be structured to provide portfolio flexibility and minimize our exposure to changes in long-term interest rates; they must be structured to optimize our cost of financing that will enhance investor rates of return; and finally, a liability strategy should contribute to corporate governance by enhancing corporate flexibility. Our senior leadership team has extensive experience with diverse liability strategies. Today, we are one of the few REITs to employ our own A+ rated borrowing source. Our senior leadership team developed our master funding conduit strategy in 2005, which is ideally suited to finance diverse portfolios of profit-center real estate, such as ours. The strategies we implement are designed to add value to our investors by offering a more efficient means to finance real estate than they could otherwise do on their own. At the same time, the flexibility we derive from our liability strategies can also result in important flexibility for our customers. 

Our Business and Growth Strategies 

Our objective is to continue to create stockholder value through sustained investment and management activities designed to grow distributable cash flows and deliver attractive risk-adjusted rates of return from a growing, diverse portfolio of STORE Properties. To accomplish this, our principal business and growth strategies are as follows: 

&#xB7; 

Continue to Focus on Middle &#8209;Market Companies Operating STORE Properties. We believe we have selected the most attractive investment opportunity within the net &#8209;lease market, STORE Properties, and targeted the most attractive customer type within that market, middle &#8209;market and larger non- rated companies. We focus on this market given its strong fundamentals and outsized growth potential. Within the net &#8209;lease market for STORE Properties, our value proposition is most compelling to middle &#8209;market, bank &#8209;dependent companies who are not rated by any nationally recognized rating agency due to their size or capital markets preferences, but who have strong credit metrics and operate within broad-based industries having the potential for sustained relevance . 

&#xB7; 

Realize Stable Income and Internal Growth. We seek to make investments that generate strong and stable current income as a result of the difference, or spread, between the rate we earn on our assets and the rate we pay on our liabilities (primarily our long &#8209;term debt). We augment that income with internal growth. We seek to realize superior internal growth through a combination of (1) a target dividend payout ratio that permits a level of free cash flow reinvestment and (2) cash generated from the estimated 1.7 % weighted average annual escalation of base rent and interest in our portfolio (as of December 31 , 2015, as if the escalations in all of our leases were expressed on an annual basis ). We benefit from contractual rent escalations, as approximately 98% of our leases and loans (by annualized base rent and interest) have escalations that are either fixed (24%) or based on the Consumer Price Index, or CPI (74%). We believe this will enable strong dividend growth without relying exclusively on future common stock issuances to fund new portfolio investments. 

&#xB7; 

Capitalize on Direct Origination Capabilities for External Growth. As the market leader in STORE Property investment originations, we plan to complement our internal growth with continued new investments that are funded through future equity issuances and borrowings to expand our platform and raise investor cash flows. 

&#xB7; 

Actively Manage our Balance Sheet to Maximize Capital Efficiency. We seek to select funding sources designed to lock in long &#8209;term investment spreads and limit interest rate sensitivity. We also seek to maintain a prudent balance between the use of debt (which includes our own STORE Master Funding program, commercial mortgage-backed securities borrowings, insurance borrowings, bank borrowings and possibly preferred stock issuances) and equity financing. In addition, during 2015, we received a BBB- rating from Fitch Ratings , Inc. and issued our first investment-grade senior unsecured term notes in November 2015; we expect that our ability to access this additional form of long-term debt will continue to enhance our ability to efficiently manage our capital structure in the futur e. As of December 31, 2015, our secured and unsecured long &#8209;term debt had an aggregate outstanding principal balance of $1.8 billion, a weighted average maturity of 6.8 years and a weighted average interest rate of 4.7%. On an annualized 

basis, our fourth quarter adjusted debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, was 6x and, as we move forward, we are targeting a ratio of between 6x and 7x. 

&#xB7; 

Increase our portfolio diversity. As of December 31, 2015, we had invested approximately $4.0 billion in 1,325 property locations, substantially all of which are profit centers for our customers. Our portfolio is highly diversified with over 300 customers operating across more than 300 different brand names, or business concepts, across 46 states and over 80 industry groups. None of our customers represented more than 3% of our portfolio as of December 31, 2015, based on annualized base rent and interest. Our portfolio&#x2019;s diversity decreases the impact on us of an adverse event affecting a specific customer, industry or region, thereby increasing the stability of our cash flows. We expect that additional acquisitions in the future will further increase the diversity of our portfolio and, from time to time, we may sell properties in our portfolio to improve overall portfolio credit quality or diversity. 

Competition 

We face competition in the acquisition and financing of STORE Properties from numerous investors, including but not limited to traded and non &#8209;traded public REITs, private equity investors and other institutional investment funds, as well as private wealth management advisory firms that serve high net worth investors (also known as family offices), some of which have greater financial resources than we do, a greater ability to borrow funds to acquire properties and the willingness to accept more risk. We also believe that competition for real estate financing comes from middle &#8209;market business owners themselves, many of whom have had a historic preference to own, rather than lease, the real estate they use in their businesses. The competition we face may increase the demand for STORE Properties and, therefore, reduce the number of suitable acquisition opportunities available to us or increase the price we must pay to acquire STORE Properties. This competition will increase if investments in real estate become more attractive relative to other forms of investment. 

Employees 

As of December 31 , 201 5 , we had 60 full &#8209;time employees, all of whom are located in our single office in Scottsdale, Arizona. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our employee relations to be good. 

Principal Executive Offices 

Our principal offices are located at 8501 East Princess Drive, Suite 190, Scottsdale, Arizona 85255. We currently occupy approximately 14,500 square feet of space leased from an unaffiliated third party. We believe that our offices are adequate for our present operations and that adequate additional space will be available in or around our current office location if needed in the future. 

Insurance 

Our leases and loan agreements typically require our tenants and borrowers to maintain insurance of the type s and in the amounts that are usual and customary for similar commercial propert ies , including commercial general liability, fire and extended loss insurance provided by reputable companies, with commercially reasonable exclusions, deductibles and limits , all as verified by our independent insurance consultant . 

Separately, we purchase contingent liability insurance, in excess of our tenants&#x2019; and borrowers&#x2019; liability coverage, to provide us with additional security in the event of a catastrophic claim. Also, we purchase property coverage, on a case-by-case basis, where we believe such additional insurance is warranted. 

Regulation 

Our properties are subject to various laws and regulations, including regulations relating to fire and safety requirements, affirmative and negative covenants and , in some instances, common area obligations. Our tenants and borrowers have primary responsibilities for compliance with these requirements pursuant to our lease and loan agreements. We believe that each of our tenants and borrowers have the necessary permits and approvals to operate and 

conduct their businesses on our properties. 

Environmental Matters 

General. All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to f ederal, state and local laws and regulations relating to human health and the environment. Certain of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability on certain statutory classes of persons, including owners or operators, for the costs of investigation or remediation of contaminated properties, regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal. These laws and regulations apply to past and present business operations of our tenants and borrowers and the use, storage, handling and contracting for recycling or disposal of hazardous substances or wastes. Our tenants and borrowers are obligated to comply with environmental laws. Our leases and loans typically impose obligations on our tenants and borrowers to indemnify us from all or most compliance costs we may experience as a result of the environmental conditions on our properties. If a tenant or borrower fails to, or cannot , comply we may be required to pay such costs. We are not aware of any environmental condition with respect to any of our properties which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot predict whether new or more stringent laws relating to the environment will be enacted in the future or how such laws will impact the operations of businesses at our properties. Costs associated with an environmental event could be substantial. 

Superlien Laws. Under the laws of many states, contamination on a site may give rise to a lien on the site for clean &#8209;up costs. In several states, such a lien has priority over all existing liens, including those of existing mortgages. In these states, the lien of a mortgage may lose its priority to such a &#x201C; superlien. &#x201D; 

CERCLA. The federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, or CERCLA, imposes strict liability on present and past &#x201C;owners&#x201D; and &#x201C;operators&#x201D; of a contaminated site for the costs of clean &#8209;up. A secured lender may be liable as an &#x201C;owner&#x201D; or &#x201C;operator&#x201D; of a contaminated site if agents or employees of the lender have participated in the management of such site or in the operations of the tenant. Excluded from CERCLA&#x2019;s definition of &#x201C;owner&#x201D; or &#x201C;operator&#x201D; however, is a person &#x201C;who without participating in the management of the facility, holds indicia of ownership primarily to protect his security interest.&#x201D; This is the so called &#x201C;secured creditor exemption.&#x201D; 

Liability is not limited to the original or unamortized principal balance of a loan or to the value of the site securing a loan. CERCLA provides substantial protection to lenders by defining the activities in which a lender can engage and still have the benefit of the secured creditor exemption. In order for a lender to be deemed to have participated in the management of a site, the lender must actually participate in the operational affairs of the site or our tenant or borrower. CERCLA provides that &#x201C; merely having the capacity to influence, or unexercised right to control &#x201D; operations does not constitute participation in management. A lender may lose the protection of the secured creditor exemption only if it exercises decision &#8209;making control over our tenant &#x2019; s or borrower &#x2019; s environmental compliance and hazardous substance handling and disposal practices, or assumes responsibility for substantially all operational functions at the site or overall management encompassing day &#8209;to &#8209;day decision making with regard to environmental compliance. CERCLA also provides that a lender will continue to have the benefit of the secured creditor exemption even if it forecloses on a site, purchases it at a foreclosure sale or accepts a deed &#8209;in &#8209;lieu of foreclosure provided that the lender seeks to sell the site at the earliest practicable commercially reasonable time on commercially reasonable terms. 

With respect to most of the assets in our investment portfolio, we are the owner of the real property. However, with respect to a few of the assets in our investment portfolio, we are not the owner of the property but have a mortgage loan on the property. We believe we meet the secured creditor exemption. 

Certain Other Federal and State Laws. Many states have statutes similar to CERCLA, and not all of those statutes provide for a secured creditor exemption. In addition, under federal law, there is potential liability relating to hazardous wastes and underground storage tanks under the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA. The definition of &#x201C; hazardous substances &#x201D; under CERCLA specifically excludes petroleum products. Subtitle I of RCRA governs underground petroleum storage tanks. The protections accorded to lenders under CERCLA are also accorded to the holders of security interests in underground petroleum storage tanks if the lender does not participate in management of the underground storage tanks and is not otherwise engaged in petroleum production, refining or 

marketing. It should be noted, however, that liability for cleanup of petroleum contamination may be governed by state law, which may not provide for any specific protection for secured creditors. 

In a few states, transfers of some types of sites are conditioned upon cleanup of contamination prior to transfer. In these cases, a lender that becomes the owner of a site through foreclosure, deed in lieu of foreclosure or otherwise, may be required to clean up the contamination before selling or otherwise transferring the site. 

Also, certain federal, state and local laws govern the removal, encapsulation or disturbance of asbestos &#8209;containing materials, or ACMs, in the event of the remodeling, renovation or demolition of a building. Such laws, as well as common law standards, may impose liability for releases of ACMs and may provide for third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators of sites for personal injuries associated with such releases. 

Beyond statute &#8209;based environmental liability, there exist common law causes of action (for example, actions based on nuisance or on toxic tort resulting in death, personal injury or damage to site) related to hazardous environmental conditions on a site. While it may be more difficult to hold a lender liable in such cases, unanticipated or uninsured liabilities of our tenant or borrower may jeopardize the tenant &#x2019; s or borrower &#x2019; s ability to meet its lease or loan obligations. 

Additional Considerations. The cost of remediating hazardous substance contamination at a site can be substantial. If a lender becomes liable, it can bring an action for contribution against the owner or operator who created the environmental hazard, but that individual or entity may be without substantial assets. 

If a lender forecloses on a mortgage secured by a site on which business operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations, the lender will be required to operate the site in accordance with those laws and regulations. Such compliance may result in substantial expense. 

In addition, a lender may be obligated to disclose environmental conditions on a site to government entities and/or to prospective buyers (including prospective buyers at a foreclosure sale or following foreclosure). Such disclosure may decrease the amount that prospective buyers are willing to pay for the affected site, sometimes substantially, and thereby decrease the ability of the lender to recoup its investment in a loan upon foreclosure. 

Emerging Growth Company Status 

As of December 31, 2015, we determined that we no longer qualify as an &#x201C;emerging growth company,&#x201D; as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, which means that we are no longer able to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not &#x201C;emerging growth companies,&#x201D; including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and stock holder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. 

Available Information 

We electronically file with the Securities and Exchange Commission our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. You may obtain a free copy of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports on the day of filing with the SEC on our website at www. storecapital.com , or by sending an email message to info@storecapital.com . 

