 Item 1. Business 

General 

Tetra Tech, Inc. is a leading provider of consulting and engineering services that focuses on water, environment, infrastructure, resource management, energy, and international development. We are a global company that is renowned for our expertise in providing water-related services for public and private clients. We typically begin at the earliest stage of a project by identifying technical solutions and developing execution plans tailored to our clients' needs and resources. Our solutions may span the entire life cycle of consulting and engineering projects and include applied science, data analysis, research, engineering, design, construction management, and operations and maintenance. 

Engineering News-Record ("ENR"), the leading trade journal for our industry, has ranked us the number one water services firm for the past 13 years, most recently in its May 2016 "Top 500 Design Firms" issue. In 2016, Tetra Tech was also ranked number one in water treatment/desalination, water treatment and supply, environmental management, dams and reservoirs, solid waste, and wind power. ENR ranks Tetra Tech among the largest 10 firms in numerous other service lines, including engineering/design, environmental science, chemical and soil remediation, site assessment and compliance, and hazardous waste. 

Our reputation for high-end consulting and engineering services and our ability to apply our skills to develop solutions for water and environmental management has supported our growth over 50 years since the founding of our predecessor company. By combining ingenuity and practical experience, we have helped to advance solutions for managing water, protecting the environment, providing energy, and engineering the infrastructure for our cities and communities. Today, we are working on projects worldwide, and currently have approximately 16,000 staff, and over 400 offices. 

Mission 

Our mission is to be the premier worldwide consulting and engineering firm, focusing on water, environment, infrastructure, resource management, energy, and international development services. The following core principles form the underpinning of how we work together to serve our clients: 

&#149; Service. We put our clients first. We listen closely to better understand our clients' needs and deliver smart, cost-effective solutions that meet their needs. &#149; Value. We solve our clients' problems as if they were our own. We develop and implement real-world solutions that are innovative, efficient and practical. &#149; Excellence. We bring superior technical capability, disciplined project management, and excellence in safety and quality to all of our services. &#149; Opportunity. Our people are our number one asset. Opportunity means new technical challenges that provide advancement within our company, encouraging a diverse workforce, and ensuring a safe workplace. The Tetra Tech Strategy 

To continue our successful growth and our competitive position in the markets we serve, we have implemented the following strategy that is integral to our future success. Our approach is to lead with science and provide high-end solutions that are differentiated and of long-lasting sustainable benefit to our clients. Our approach encompasses five key aspects of differentiation: 

Technical Differentiation. Since our inception, we have provided innovative consulting and engineering services, with a focus on providing cost-effective solutions for all aspects of water resource management. Adoption of emerging science and technology in the development of high-end consulting and engineering solutions is central to our approach to "lead with science" in the delivery of our services. 

Relationships and Trust. We have achieved a broad client and contract base by understanding our clients' priorities and demonstrating a long track record of successful performance that results in repeat business and limits competition. We believe that proximity to our clients is also instrumental to integrating global experience and resources with an understanding of our local clients' needs. Over the past year, we worked in over 100 countries, helping government and private sector clients address complex water, environment, energy and related infrastructure needs. 

Institutional Knowledge. Over our history, we have supported both public and private clients, many for multiple decades of continuous contracts and repeat business. Long-term relationships provide us with institutional knowledge of our clients' programs, past projects and internal resources. Institutional knowledge is often a significant factor in providing competitive proposals and cost-effective solutions tailored to our clients' needs. 

One-of-a-Kind Solutions. We are often at the leading edge of new challenges where we are providing one-of-a-kind solutions. These might be a new water reuse technology, a unique solution to addressing new regulatory requirements, a new monitoring approach for assessing infrastructure assets or a computer model for real time management of water resources. We are constantly evolving our intellectual property, including a wide range of computer models, algorithms, analytical software, and environmental treatment approaches and instrumentation, often in collaboration with our forward-thinking clients. Bringing our one-of-a-kind solutions to real world problems is a differentiator in expanding our services and growing our business. 

Smart Solutions and Innovation. Smart solutions often require taking the same pieces of the puzzle and putting them together in a different way for a better outcome. Complex projects for the public and private sectors, at the leading edge of policy and technology development, often require innovative solutions that combine multiple aspects of our interdisciplinary capabilities, technical resources and institutional knowledge. 

Our strategy leverages our five differentiators to drive growth in our existing water, environment, infrastructure, resource management, energy, and international development markets. We are focused on continuing to expand our leadership position with long-term clients, while also investing in emerging growth areas. Our differentiated capabilities provide us a competitive advantage to address new opportunities in the marketplace and apply new technologies to the fastest growing areas of our business. 

To support our growth plans, we actively attract, recruit and retain key hires. Our combination of high-end science and consulting with practical applications provides challenging and rewarding opportunities for our employees, thereby enhancing our ability to recruit and retain top quality talent. Our internal networking programs, leadership training, entrepreneurial environment, focus on technical excellence, and global project portfolio help to attract and retain highly qualified individuals. 

We also maintain a strong emphasis on project management at all levels of the organization. Our client-focused project management is supported by strong fiscal management and financial tools. We take a disciplined approach to monitoring, managing and improving our return on investment in each of our business areas through our efforts to negotiate appropriate contract terms, manage our contract performance to minimize schedule delays and cost overruns, and promptly bill and collect accounts receivable. 

Our strategic growth plans are augmented by our selective investment in acquisitions aligned with our business. Acquisitions enhance plans to broaden our service offerings, add contract capacity and extend our geographic presence. Our experience with acquisitions strengthens our ability to integrate and rapidly leverage the resources of the acquired companies post-acquisition. 

Reportable Segments 

In fiscal 2016, we managed our continuing operations under two reportable segments. We report our water resources, water and wastewater treatment, environment, and infrastructure engineering activities in the Water, Environment and Infrastructure ("WEI") reportable segment. Our Resource Management and Energy ("RME") reportable segment includes our oil and gas, energy, international development, waste management, remediation, and utilities services. In addition, we report the results of the wind-down of our non-core construction activities in the Remediation and Construction Management ("RCM") reportable segment. The following table presents the percentage of our revenue by reportable segment: 

&#160; &#160; Fiscal Year &#160; Reportable Segment &#160; 2016 &#160; 2015 &#160; 2014 &#160; WEI &#160; &#160; 39.8 % &#160; 43.2 % &#160; 41.0 % RME &#160; &#160; 60.8 &#160; &#160; 55.8 &#160; &#160; 53.7 &#160; RCM &#160; &#160; 2.0 &#160; &#160; 3.7 &#160; &#160; 8.9 &#160; Inter-segment elimination &#160; &#160; (2.6 ) &#160; (2.7 ) &#160; (3.6 ) &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; 100.0 % &#160; 100.0 % &#160; 100.0 % &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; 

For additional information regarding our reportable segments, see Note 19, "Reportable Segments" of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Item 8. For more information 

on risks related to our business, segments and geographic regions, including risks related to foreign operations, see Item 1A, "Risk Factors" of this report. 

Water, Environment and Infrastructure 

WEI provides consulting and engineering services worldwide for a broad range of water, environment, and infrastructure-related needs in both developed and emerging economies. WEI supports both public and private clients including federal, state/provincial and local governments, and commercial clients. The primary WEI markets include water resources analysis and water management, environmental monitoring, data analytics, government consulting, and a broad range of civil infrastructure master planning and engineering design for facilities, transportation, and local development projects. WEI's services span from early data collection and monitoring, to data analysis and information technology, to science and engineering applied research, to engineering design, to construction management, and operations and maintenance. 

WEI provides our clients with sustainable solutions that optimize their water management and environmental programs to address regulatory requirements, improve operational efficiencies, manage assets, and promote corporate responsibility. Our services advance sustainability through the "greening" of infrastructure, design of energy efficiency and resource conservation programs, innovation in the capture and sequestration of carbon, formulation of emergency preparedness and response plans, and improvement in water and land resource management practices. We provide climate change and energy management consulting, and greenhouse gas inventory assessment, certification, reduction, and management services. 

Many government and commercial organizations face complex problems due to increased demand and competition for water and natural resources, newly understood threats to human health and the environment, aging infrastructure, and demand for new and more resilient infrastructure in emerging economies. Our integrated water management services support government agencies responsible for managing water supplies, wastewater treatment, storm water management, and flood protection. These services also support private sector clients that require water supply and treatment for industrial processes. We help our clients develop water supplies and manage water resources, while addressing a wide range of local and national government requirements and policies. Fluctuations in weather patterns and extreme events, such as prolonged droughts and more frequent flooding, are increasing concerns over the reliability of water supplies, the need to protect coastal areas, and flood mitigation and adaptation in metropolitan areas. 

Examples of our services include the following: 

&#149; Providing high-end water analysis services world-wide, including master planning; data analytics, modeling of surface and groundwater behavior, particularly in the areas of water resources, watershed management, and climate adaptation analysis; drought mitigation and water supply development; and flood mitigation and management. &#149; Supporting innovative software and system design services for a wide range of water resource, environmental and infrastructure data management needs, including informational technology systems, portals, dashboards, data management, data analytics, and statistical analysis. &#149; Providing smart water infrastructure solutions that integrate water modeling, instrumentation and controls, and real-time controls to create flexible water systems that respond to changing conditions, optimize use of infrastructure, and provide clients with the ability to more efficiently monitor and manage their water infrastructure. 7 

&#149; Providing consulting and engineering design services that are applied to numerous aspects of water quality and quantity management, including major water and wastewater treatment plants, combined sewer storage and separation, water reuse (indirect and potable reuse) programs, regional storm water management and green infrastructure design, and drainage and flood control; supporting master planning, permitting, design, and construction of water-related redevelopment projects, and parks and river corridor restoration projects; and providing water supply, water treatment, and water reuse services. &#149; Providing comprehensive services for environmental planning, cleanup and reuse of sites contaminated with hazardous materials, toxic chemicals, and oil and petroleum products, which cover all phases of the remedial planning process, starting with emergency response and initial site assessment through removal actions, remedial design and implementation oversight; and supporting both commercial and government clients in planning and implementing remedial activities at numerous sites around the world, and providing a broad range of environmental analysis and planning services. &#149; Offering engineering design services for commercial clients; helping to renovate, upgrade, and modernize industrial water supplies, and address water treatment and water reuse needs; and providing plant engineering, project execution, and program management services for industrial water treatment projects throughout the world. &#149; Providing analytical, engineering, architecture, geotechnical, and construction management services for infrastructure projects, including roadway monitoring and asset management services, collecting condition data, optimizing upgrades and long-term planning for expansion; providing multi-model design services for commuter railway stations, airport expansions, bridges and major highways, and ports and harbors; and designing solutions to repair, replace, and upgrade older transportation infrastructure. &#149; Providing infrastructure design services in extreme and remote areas by using specialized techniques that are adapted to local resources, while minimizing environmental impacts, and considering potential climate change impacts. These include providing consulting, geotechnical, and design services to owners of transportation, natural resources, energy and community infrastructure in the Arctic and areas of permafrost around the globe. &#149; Providing planning, architectural, and engineering services for U.S. federal, state and local government, and commercial facilities and their related infrastructure needs including military housing, and educational, institutional, corporate headquarters, healthcare, and research facilities; providing civil, electrical, mechanical, structural, plumbing and fire protection engineering and design services for buildings and surrounding developments around the world; and providing engineering and construction management projects for a wide range of clients with specialized needs, such as security systems, training and audiovisual facilities, clean rooms, laboratories, medical facilities and emergency preparedness facilities. &#149; Providing technology systems to optimize the airspace system and related aviation systems integration for the U.S. and other countries. Our aviation airspace services include data management, data processing, communications and outreach, and systems development; and providing systems analysis and information management. Resource Management and Energy 

RME provides consulting and engineering services worldwide for a broad range of resource management and energy needs. RME supports both private and public clients, including global industrial 

and commercial clients, major international development agencies, and U.S. federal agencies in large-scale remediation. The primary markets for RME's services include natural resources, energy, international development, remediation, waste management, and utilities. RME's services span from early data collection and monitoring, to data analysis and information technology, to feasibility studies and assessments, to science and engineering applied research, to engineering design, to construction management, and operations and maintenance. RME also supports engineering, procurement and construction management ("EPCM") for full service implementation of commercial projects. 

RME supports our clients in addressing emerging policies, resource limitations and concern about climate change, including the design of energy conservation measures, retrofits to existing structures, upgrades to energy transmission infrastructure, and the development of renewable energy resources. We also support governments in deploying international development programs for developing nations to help them overcome numerous challenges, including access to potable water, agricultural programs, governance and infrastructure programs, education, and human health. 

Examples of our services include the following: 

&#149; Supporting oil and gas clients across North America, Australia, Papua New Guinea, and the Middle East in the upstream, midstream and downstream market sectors. Our services include environmental permitting support, siting studies, strategic planning and analyses; design of well pads and surface impoundments for drilling sites; water management for exploration activities; design of midstream pipelines and associated pumping stations and storage facilities; construction monitoring, design and construction management for downstream sustaining capital projects; biological and cultural assessments, and site investigations; and hazardous waste site remediation. &#149; Providing a full range of services to electric power utilities and independent power producers worldwide, ranging from macro-level planning and management advisory services to project-specific environmental, engineering, construction management, and operational services, and advising on the design and implementation of a smart grid both in the U.S. and internationally, including increasing utility automation, information and operational technologies, and critical infrastructure security. For utilities and governmental regulatory agencies, services include policy and regulatory development, utility management, performance improvement, asset management and evaluation, and transaction support services. For developers and owners of renewable energy resources such as solar grid and off-grid, on-shore and off-shore wind, biogas and biomass, tidal, and hydropower, and conventional power generation facilities, as well as transmission and distribution assets, services include environmental, engineering, procurement, operations and maintenance, and regulatory support for all project phases. &#149; Providing international development services to many donor agencies to develop safe and reliable water supplies and sanitation services, support the eradication of poverty, improve livelihoods, promote democracy and increase economic growth; planning, designing, implementing, researching, and monitoring projects in the areas of climate change, agriculture and rural development, governance and institutional development, natural resources and the environment, infrastructure, economic growth, energy, rule of law and justice systems, land tenure and property rights, and training and consulting for public-private partnerships; and building capacity and strengthening institutions in areas such as global health, energy sector reform, utility management, education, food security, and local governance. &#149; Offering a wide range of consulting and engineering services for solid waste management, including landfill design and management, throughout the United States and Canada; providing design, construction management, and maintenance services to manage solid and hazardous 9 

waste, for environmental, wastewater, energy, oil and gas containment, mining, utilities, aquaculture, and other industrial clients; designing and installing geosynthetic liners for large lining and capping projects, as well as innovative renewable energy projects such as solar energy-generating landfill caps; and providing full-service solutions for gas-to-energy facilities to efficiently use landfill methane gas. 

&#149; Providing environmental remediation and reconstruction services to evaluate and restore lands to beneficial use, including the identification, evaluation and destruction of unexploded ordinance, both domestically and internationally; investigating, remediating, and restoring contaminated facilities at military locations in the U.S. and around the world; managing large, complex sediment remediation programs that help restore rivers and coastal waters to beneficial use; constructing state-of-the-art water treatment plants for commercial clients; and supporting utilities in the U.S. in implementing infrastructure needs, including broadband, wired utilities, and natural gas distribution systems. Remediation and Construction Management 

We report the results of the wind-down of our non-core construction activities in the RCM reportable segment. The remaining work to be performed in this segment will be substantially completed in fiscal 2017. 

Project Examples 

The following table presents brief examples of projects in our ongoing operations during fiscal 2016: 

Segment &#160; Representative Projects WEI &#160; &#149; 

For the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") Office of Water and Office of Science and Technology, providing analysis of waterways in the U.S. and technical analysis of emerging monitoring and analytical techniques. &#160; &#149; 

For the District of Columbia Department of the Environment, providing consulting and environmental analysis for the assessment and cleanup of contaminated sediments in a 12-mile portion of the Anacostia River and sites located within its watershed. &#160; &#149; 

Providing emergency management and planning services for multiple state and local agencies, especially in coastal regions, such as response and recovery from wildfires in California, flooding in the Gulf Coast and West Virginia, and Hurricane Matthew along the U.S. Atlantic coast, and continued infrastructure recovery services following Superstorm Sandy in New York and New Jersey. &#160; &#149; 

Providing EPA Superfund Technical Assessment and Response Team program support with emergency preparedness, environmental response, removal action, site assessment, community involvement, and other Superfund technical services at locations in 23 states. &#160; &#149; 

For the Montana Department of Environmental Quality at the Carpenter-Snow Creek Mining District Superfund site, providing services including investigation, risk assessment, engineering study, design, cleanup oversight, and long-term monitoring services for an area that includes 70 abandoned mines and associated impacted lands. 

Segment &#160; Representative Projects &#160; &#149; 

Providing EPA climate change program support for implementing voluntary domestic and international programs to reduce emissions of methane (a significant greenhouse gas) from landfills, oil and gas operations, livestock farms, and wastewater treatment plants. &#160; &#149; 

Providing smart water infrastructure solutions for stormwater capture and water quality management for municipalities in Los Angeles and San Diego, California. &#160; &#149; 

Providing smart water solutions using real time control systems to reduce overflows, maximize use of retention in the system, and improve operational efficiency in cities in the U.S., Canada, and France. &#160; &#149; 

Providing engineering services to the City of Clearwater, Florida for the design of the first potable water reuse project in Florida, using a combination of innovative groundwater recharge and treatment. &#160; &#149; 

Providing program management for the City of Detroit for the broad implementation of community-based stormwater management and green infrastructure, effectively combining city revitalization initiatives and reduction of overflows. &#160; &#149; 

Providing master planning services to Miami-Dade County, Florida in smart, energy efficient and resilient water infrastructure solutions for the most populous county in Florida. &#160; &#149; 

Providing transportation planning, data collection and design services for the Province of Alberta, Canada, with specialized expertise in arctic region infrastructure. &#160; &#149; 

Providing energy efficient, "net zero" project development and asset management services for the U.S. military, including the Army, Navy and Air Force. &#160; &#149; 

Providing energy, environmental assessment and studies to mitigate the impact of military operations on sensitive flora and fauna at U.S. bases, such as the endangered desert tortoise on a Marine Corps base. &#160; &#149; 

Providing master planning and engineering design services to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers ("USACE") on U.S. bases and in international facilities through multiple district and program specific contracts. RME &#160; &#149; 

For the U.S. Department of Energy ("DOE") &#150; National Energy Technology Laboratory and the Electric Power Institute, utilizing gravity/magnetics techniques and geostatistical modeling to predict the potential for coal basins to become viable sources for rare earth elements. &#160; &#149; 

For the Brazilian Samarco Mining Tailings Dam collapse, utilizing satellite images to assess dam breakage and perform virtual reality modeling. 

Segment &#160; Representative Projects &#160; &#149; 

For the U.S. Agency for International Development ("USAID"), implementing projects in Africa, Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, and Eastern Europe including the USAID Power Africa program with technical and capacity building expertise to accelerate clean energy project development; and for USAID and the government of Afghanistan, to empower women to increase gender diversity and engagement in civil society. &#160; &#149; 

For USAID, designing and implementing climate change programs, including mitigation of global climate change impacts and strengthening of community resilience to withstand extreme weather events through programs in Southeast Asia, Latin America, and West Africa. &#160; &#149; 

For the U.K. Department for International Development, designing and implementing projects in Africa, Asia, and the Middle East. &#160; &#149; 

For the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, implementing a range of development projects in the Asia Pacific region. &#160; &#149; 

For DONG Energy, providing constraints analyses, siting studies, marine geophysical surveys, submarine cable routing analyses, specialty marine impact studies, permitting services, biological and cultural resource surveys, construction compliance, and support for U.S. east coast offshore energy projects. &#160; &#149; 

For multiple oil &#38; gas clients, providing engineering, detailed design, and construction monitoring for midstream pipeline companies; performing in-plant engineering and sustaining capital project work at downstream refineries; building a specialty insulated pipeline for the transport of hot bitumen in Alberta, Canada; and preparing the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission environmental permitting for the Mountain Valley gas pipeline project. &#160; &#149; 

Using our proprietary Solar Thermal Aerobic Recirculation Treatment system to implement enhanced remediation of contaminated groundwater at multiple Caltex sites in Australia. &#160; &#149; 

Designing the Puente Hills Intermodel Facility for the Los Angeles County Sanitation Districts. &#160; &#149; 

Providing turn-key design, construction, dredging, and treatment services on the Lower Fox River in Wisconsin. &#160; &#149; 

Treating water discharge from a closed mine site through the design-build of a state-of-the-art water treatment plant. &#160; &#149; 

Working in the Marcellus Shale Play to transform a depleted natural gas field into the only commercial underground saltwater disposal injection well facility in Pennsylvania. &#160; &#149; 

Preparing a third party environmental impact statement for Clean Line Energy and the DOE for a 720-mile overhead 600 kilovolt high voltage direct current electric transmission line across Oklahoma, Arkansas, and Tennessee. 

Clients 

We provide services to a diverse base of international, U.S. commercial, U.S. federal, and U.S. state and local government clients. The following table presents the percentage of our revenue by client sector: 

&#160; &#160; Fiscal Year &#160; Client Sector &#160; 2016 &#160; 2015 &#160; 2014 &#160; International (1) &#160; &#160; 28.1 % &#160; 24.6 % &#160; 25.9 % U.S. commercial &#160; &#160; 29.5 &#160; &#160; 32.0 &#160; &#160; 28.9 &#160; U.S. federal government (2) &#160; &#160; 30.4 &#160; &#160; 30.9 &#160; &#160; 30.9 &#160; U.S. state and local government &#160; &#160; 12.0 &#160; &#160; 12.5 &#160; &#160; 14.3 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; 100.0 % &#160; 100.0 % &#160; 100.0 % &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; 

(1) Includes revenue generated from foreign operations, primarily in Canada and Australia, and revenue generated from non-U.S. clients. (2) Includes revenue generated under U.S. federal government contracts performed outside the United States. 

U.S. federal government agencies are significant clients. USAID accounted for 13.1%, 9.6% and 9.2% of our revenue in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The Department of Defense ("DoD") accounted for 8.2%, 10.4%, and 11.7% of our revenue in fiscal 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. We typically support multiple programs within a single U.S. federal government agency, both domestically and internationally. We also assist U.S. state and local government clients in a variety of jurisdictions across the United States. In Canada, we work for several provinces and a variety of local jurisdictions. Our commercial clients include companies in the chemical, energy, mining, pharmaceutical, retail, aerospace, automotive, petroleum, and communications industries. No single client, except for U.S. federal government clients, accounted for more than 10% of our revenue in fiscal 2016. 

Contracts 

Our services are performed under three principal types of contracts with our clients: fixed-price, time-and-materials, and cost-plus. The following table presents the percentage of our revenue by contract type: 

&#160; &#160; Fiscal Year &#160; Contract Type &#160; 2016 &#160; 2015 &#160; 2014 &#160; Fixed-price &#160; &#160; 30.0 % &#160; 35.4 % &#160; 45.3 % Time-and-materials &#160; &#160; 50.9 &#160; &#160; 45.8 &#160; &#160; 36.3 &#160; Cost-plus &#160; &#160; 19.1 &#160; &#160; 18.8 &#160; &#160; 18.4 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; 100.0 % &#160; 100.0 % &#160; 100.0 % &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; 

Under a fixed-price contract, the client agrees to pay a specified price for our performance of the entire contract or a specified portion of the contract. Some fixed-price contracts can include date-certain and/or performance obligations. Fixed-price contracts carry certain inherent risks, including risks of losses from underestimating costs, delays in project completion, problems with new technologies, price increases for materials, and economic and other changes that may occur over the contract period. Consequently, the profitability of fixed-price contracts may vary substantially. Under our time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and also paid for other expenses. Profitability on these contracts is driven by billable headcount and cost control. Many of our time-and-materials contracts are subject to maximum contract values and, accordingly, revenue related to these contracts is recognized as if 

these contracts were fixed-price contracts. Under our cost-plus contracts, some of which are subject to a contract ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and fees, which may be fixed or performance-based. If our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable, we may not be able to obtain full reimbursement. Further, the amount of the fee received for a cost-plus award fee contract partially depends upon the client's discretionary periodic assessment of our performance on that contract. 

Some contracts with the U.S. federal government are subject to annual funding approval. U.S. federal government agencies may impose spending restrictions that limit the continued funding of our existing contracts and may limit our ability to obtain additional contracts. These limitations, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on us. All contracts with the U.S. federal government may be terminated by the government at any time, with or without cause. 

U.S. federal government agencies have formal policies against continuing or awarding contracts that would create actual or potential conflicts of interest with other activities of a contractor. These policies may prevent us from bidding for or performing government contracts resulting from or related to certain work we have performed. In addition, services performed for a commercial or government sector client may create conflicts of interest that preclude or limit our ability to obtain work for a private organization. We attempt to identify actual or potential conflicts of interest and to minimize the possibility that such conflicts could affect our work under current contracts or our ability to compete for future contracts. We have, on occasion, declined to bid on a project because of an existing or potential conflict of interest. 

Some of our operating units have contracts with the U.S. federal government that are subject to audit by the government, primarily by the Defense Contract Audit Agency ("DCAA"). The DCAA generally seeks to (i) identify and evaluate all activities that contribute to, or have an impact on, proposed or incurred costs of government contracts; (ii) evaluate a contractor's policies, procedures, controls, and performance; and (iii) prevent or avoid wasteful, careless, and inefficient production or service. To accomplish this, the DCAA examines our internal control systems, management policies, and financial capability; evaluates the accuracy, reliability, and reasonableness of our cost representations and records; and assesses our compliance with Cost Accounting Standards ("CAS") and defective-pricing clauses found within the Federal Acquisition Regulation ("FAR"). The DCAA also performs an annual review of our overhead rates and assists in the establishment of our final rates. This review focuses on the allowability of cost items and the applicability of CAS. The DCAA also audits cost-based contracts, including the close-out of those contracts. 

The DCAA reviews all types of U.S. federal government proposals, including those of award, administration, modification, and re-pricing. The DCAA considers our cost accounting system, estimating methods and procedures, and specific proposal requirements. Operational audits are also performed by the DCAA. A review of our operations at every major organizational level is conducted during the proposal review period. During the course of its audit, the U.S. federal government may disallow costs if it determines that we accounted for such costs in a manner inconsistent with CAS. Under a government contract, only those costs that are reasonable, allocable, and allowable are recoverable. A disallowance of costs by the U.S. federal government could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 

In accordance with our corporate policies, we maintain controls to minimize any occurrence of fraud or other unlawful activities that could result in severe legal remedies, including the payment of damages and/or penalties, criminal and civil sanctions, and debarment. In addition, we maintain preventative audit programs and mitigation measures to ensure that appropriate control systems are in place. 

We provide our services under contracts, purchase orders, or retainer letters. Our policy requires that all contracts must be in writing. We bill our clients in accordance with the contract terms and periodically based on costs incurred, on either an hourly-fee basis or on a percentage-of-completion basis, 

as the project progresses. Most of our agreements permit our clients to terminate the agreements without cause upon payment of fees and expenses through the date of the termination. Generally, our contracts do not require that we provide performance bonds. If required, a performance bond, issued by a surety company, guarantees a contractor's performance under the contract. If the contractor defaults under the contract, the surety will, at its discretion, complete the job or pay the client the amount of the bond. If the contractor does not have a performance bond and defaults in the performance of a contract, the contractor is responsible for all damages resulting from the breach of contract. These damages include the cost of completion, together with possible consequential damages such as lost profits. 

Marketing and Business Development 

Our management team establishes our overall business strategy. Our ongoing strategic planning defines and guides our investment in marketing and business development to leverage our differentiators and target priority programs and growth markets. We maintain centralized business development resources to develop our corporate branding and marketing materials, support proposal preparation and planning, conduct market research, and manage promotional and professional activities, including appearances at trade shows, direct mailings, advertising, and public relations. 

We have established company-wide growth initiatives that reinforce internal coordination, track the development of new programs, identify and coordinate collective resources for major bids, and help us build interdisciplinary teams and provide innovative solutions for major pursuits. Our growth initiatives provide a forum for cross-sector collaboration and the development of interdisciplinary solutions. We continuously identify new markets that are consistent with our strategic plan and service offerings, and we leverage our full-service capabilities and internal coordination structure to develop and implement strategies to research, anticipate, and position us for future procurements and emerging programs. 

Business development activities are implemented by our technical and professional management staff throughout the company with the support of company-wide resources and expertise. Our project managers and technical staff have the best understanding of a client's needs and the effect of local or client-specific issues, laws and regulations, and procurement procedures. Our professional staff members hold frequent meetings with existing and potential clients; give presentations to civic and professional organizations; and present seminars on research and technical applications. Essential to the effective development of business is each staff member's access to all of our service offerings through our internal technical and geographic networks. Our strong internal networking programs help our professional staff members to pursue new opportunities for both existing and new clients. These networks also facilitate our ability to provide services throughout the project life cycle from the early studies to operations and maintenance. Our enterprise-wide knowledge management systems include skills search tools, business development tracking, and collaboration tools. 

Sustainability Program 

Tetra Tech supports clients in more than 100 countries around the world, helping them to solve complex problems and achieve solutions that are technically, socially, and economically sustainable. Our high-end consulting and engineering services focus on using innovative technologies and creative solutions to minimize environmental impacts. Our greatest contribution toward sustainability is through the projects we perform every day for our clients. Sustainability is embedded in our projects &#150; from recycling freshwater supplies to recycling waste products, reducing energy consumption, and reducing greenhouse gas emissions in developing countries. 

Our Sustainability Program allows us to further expand our commitment to sustainability by encouraging, coordinating, and reporting on actions to minimize our collective impacts on the environment. Our Sustainability Program has three primary pillars: Projects &#150; the solutions we provide for 

our clients; Procurement &#150; our procurement and subcontracting approaches; and Processes &#150; the internal policies and processes that promote sustainable practices, reduce costs, and minimize environmental impacts. In addition, our program is based on the Global Reporting Initiative ("GRI") Sustainability Report Framework, the internationally predominant sustainability reporting protocol for corporate sustainability plans, which includes three fundamental areas: environmental, economic, and social sustainability. 

Our Sustainability Program is led by our Chief Sustainability Officer, who has been appointed by executive management and is supported by other key corporate and operations representatives via our Sustainability Council. We have established a clear set of metrics to evaluate our progress toward our sustainability goals. Each metric corresponds with one or more performance indicators from GRI. These metrics include economic, health and safety, information technology, human resources, and real estate. We continuously implement sustainability-related policies and practices, and we assess the results of our efforts in order to improve upon them in the future. Our executive management team reviews and approves the Sustainability Program and evaluates our progress in achieving the goals and objectives outlined in our plan. We publish an annual sustainability report that documents our progress. 

Acquisitions and Divestitures 

Acquisitions. We continuously evaluate the marketplace for acquisition opportunities to further our strategic growth plans. Due to our reputation, size, financial resources, geographic presence and range of services, we have numerous opportunities to acquire privately and publicly held companies or selected portions of such companies. We evaluate an acquisition opportunity based on its ability to strengthen our leadership in the markets we serve, add new geographies, and provide complementary skills. Also, during our evaluation, we examine an acquisition's ability to drive organic growth, its accretive effect on long-term earnings, and its ability to generate return on investment. Generally, we proceed with an acquisition if we believe that it could strategically expand our service offerings, improve our long-term financial performance, and increase shareholder returns. 

We view acquisitions as a key component in the execution of our growth strategy, and we intend to use cash, debt or securities, as we deem appropriate, to fund acquisitions. We may acquire other businesses that we believe are synergistic and will ultimately increase our revenue and net income, strengthen our ability to achieve our strategic goals, provide critical mass with existing clients, and further expand our lines of service. We typically pay a purchase price that results in the recognition of goodwill, generally representing the intangible value of a successful business with an assembled workforce specialized in our areas of interest. Acquisitions are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flow. All acquisitions require the approval of our Board of Directors. 

On January 18, 2016, we acquired Coffey International Limited ("Coffey"), headquartered in Sydney, Australia. Coffey had approximately 3,300 staff delivering technical and engineering solutions in international development and geoscience. Coffey significantly expands our geographic presence, particularly in Australia and Asia Pacific, and is part of our RME segment. In addition to Australia, Coffey's international development business has operations supporting federal government agencies in the U.S. and the United Kingdom. In the second quarter of fiscal 2016, we also acquired INDUS Corporation ("INDUS"), headquartered in Vienna, Virginia. INDUS is a technology solutions firm focused on water data analytics, geospatial analysis, secure infrastructure, and software applications management for U.S. federal government customers, and is included in our WEI segment. In fiscal 2015, we acquired Cornerstone Environmental Group, LLC ("CEG"), headquartered in Middletown, New York. CEG is an environmental engineering and consulting firm focused on solid waste markets in the United States, and is included in our RME segment. 

For detailed information regarding acquisitions, see Note 5, "Mergers and Acquisitions" of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Item 8. 

Divestitures. We regularly review and evaluate our existing operations to determine whether our business model should change through the divestiture of certain businesses. Accordingly, from time to time, we may divest certain non-core businesses and reallocate our resources to businesses that better align with our long-term strategic direction. We did not have any divestitures in fiscal 2016, 2015, or 2014. 

Competition 

The market for our services is generally competitive. We often compete with many other firms ranging from small regional firms to large international firms. 

We perform a broad spectrum of consulting, engineering, and technical services across the water, environment, infrastructure, resource management, energy, and international development markets. Our client base includes U.S. federal government agencies such as the DoD, USAID, DOE, EPA and the Federal Aviation Administration; U.S. state and local government agencies; government and commercial clients in Canada and Australia; the U.S. commercial sector, which consists primarily of large industrial companies and utilities; and our international commercial clients. Our competition varies and is a function of the business areas in which, and the client sectors for which, we perform our services. The number of competitors for any procurement can vary widely, depending upon technical qualifications, the relative value of the project, geographic location, the financial terms and risks associated with the work, and any restrictions placed upon competition by the client. Historically, clients have chosen among competing firms by weighing the quality, innovation and timeliness of the firm's service versus its cost to determine which firm offers the best value. When less work becomes available in certain markets, price could become an increasingly important factor. 

Our competitors vary depending on end markets and clients, and often we may only compete with a portion of a firm. We believe that our principal competitors include the following firms, in alphabetical order: AECOM Technology Corporation; AMEC Foster Wheeler; Arcadis NV; Black &#38; Veatch Corporation; Brown &#38; Caldwell; CDM Smith Inc.; CH2M HILL Companies, Ltd.; Chemonics International, Inc.; Exponent, Inc.; GHD; ICF International, Inc.; Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.; Leidos, Inc.; SNC-Lavalin Group Inc.; Stantec Inc.; TRC Companies, Inc.; Weston Solutions, Inc.; Willbros Group, Inc.; and WSP Global Inc. 

Backlog 

We include in our backlog only those contracts for which funding has been provided and work authorization has been received. We estimate that approximately 70% of our backlog at the end of fiscal 2016 will be recognized as revenue in fiscal 2017, as work is being performed. However, we cannot guarantee that the revenue projected in our backlog will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits. In addition, project cancellations or scope adjustments may occur with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog. For example, certain of our contracts with the U.S. federal government and other clients are terminable at the discretion of the client, with or without cause. These types of backlog reductions could adversely affect our revenue and margins. Accordingly, our backlog as of any particular date is an uncertain indicator of our future earnings. 

At fiscal 2016 year-end, our backlog was $2.4 billion, an increase of $477 million, or 25%, compared to fiscal 2015 year-end. Approximately $900 million and $1.5 billion of our backlog at the end of fiscal 2016 related to WEI and RME, respectively. The overall increase in our backlog was primarily due to the acquisition of Coffey in the second quarter of fiscal 2016. 

Regulations 

We engage in various service activities that are subject to government oversight, including environmental laws and regulations, general government procurement laws and regulations, and other regulations and requirements imposed by the specific government agencies with which we conduct business. 

Environmental. A significant portion of our business involves the planning, design, program management and construction management of pollution control facilities, as well as the assessment and management of remediation activities at hazardous waste sites, U.S. Superfund sites, and military bases. In addition, we contract with U.S. federal government entities to destroy hazardous materials, including weapons stockpiles. These activities require us to manage, handle, remove, treat, transport, and dispose of toxic or hazardous substances. 

Some environmental laws, such as the U.S. Superfund law and similar state, provincial and local statutes, can impose liability for the entire cost of clean-up for contaminated facilities or sites upon present and former owners and operators, as well as generators, transporters, and persons arranging for the treatment or disposal of such substances. In addition, while we strive to handle hazardous and toxic substances with care and in accordance with safe methods, the possibility of accidents, leaks, spills, and events of force majeure always exist. Humans exposed to these materials, including workers or subcontractors engaged in the transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and persons in affected areas, may be injured or become ill. This could result in lawsuits that expose us to liability and substantial damage awards. Liabilities for contamination or human exposure to hazardous or toxic materials, or a failure to comply with applicable regulations, could result in substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines, civil or criminal sanctions, third party claims for property damage or personal injury, or the cessation of remediation activities. 

Certain of our business operations are covered by U.S. Public Law 85-804, which provides for government indemnification against claims and damages arising out of unusually hazardous activities performed at the request of the government. Due to changes in public policies and law, however, government indemnification may not be available in the case of any future claims or liabilities relating to other hazardous activities that we perform. 

Government Procurement. The services we provide to the U.S. federal government are subject to the FAR and other rules and regulations applicable to government contracts. These rules and regulations: 

&#149; require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with the contract negotiations under certain contract types; &#149; impose accounting rules that define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based government contracts; and &#149; restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. In addition, services provided to the DoD are monitored by the Defense Contract Management Agency and audited by the DCAA. Our government clients can also terminate any of their contracts, and many of our government contracts are subject to renewal or extension annually. Further, the services we provide to state and local government clients are subject to various government rules and regulations. 

Seasonality 

We experience seasonal trends in our business. Our revenue and operating income are typically lower in the first half of our fiscal year, primarily due to the Thanksgiving (in the U.S.), Christmas and New Year's holidays. Many of our clients' employees, as well as our own employees, take vacations during these holiday periods. Further, seasonal inclement weather conditions occasionally cause some of our offices to close temporarily or may hamper our project field work in the northern hemisphere's temperate and arctic regions. These occurrences result in fewer billable hours worked on projects and, correspondingly, less revenue recognized. 

Potential Liability and Insurance 

Our business activities could expose us to potential liability under various laws and under workplace health and safety regulations. In addition, we occasionally assume liability by contract under indemnification agreements. We cannot predict the magnitude of such potential liabilities. 

We maintain a comprehensive general liability insurance policy with an umbrella policy that covers losses beyond the general liability limits. We also maintain professional errors and omissions liability and contractor's pollution liability insurance policies. We believe that both policies provide adequate coverage for our business. When we perform higher-risk work, we obtain, if available, the necessary types of insurance coverage for such activities, as is typically required by our clients. 

We obtain insurance coverage through a broker that is experienced in our industry. The broker and our risk manager regularly review the adequacy of our insurance coverage. Because there are various exclusions and retentions under our policies, or an insurance carrier may become insolvent, there can be no assurance that all potential liabilities will be covered by our insurance policies or paid by our carrier. 

We evaluate the risk associated with insurance claims. If we determine that a loss is probable and reasonably estimable, we establish an appropriate reserve. A reserve is not established if we determine that a claim has no merit or is not probable or reasonably estimable. Our historic levels of insurance coverage and reserves have been adequate. However, partially or completely uninsured claims, if successful and of significant magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

Employees 

At fiscal 2016 year-end, we had approximately 16,000 staff worldwide. A large percentage of our employees have technical and professional backgrounds and undergraduate and/or advanced degrees, including the employees of recently acquired companies. Our professional staff includes archaeologists, architects, biologists, chemical engineers, chemists, civil engineers, computer scientists, economists, electrical engineers, environmental engineers, environmental scientists, geologists, hydrogeologists, mechanical engineers, oceanographers, project managers and toxicologists. We consider the current relationships with our employees to be favorable. We are not aware of any employment circumstances that are likely to disrupt work at any of our facilities. See Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" for a discussion of the risks related to the loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The following table shows the name, age and position of each of our executive officers at November 22, 2016: 

Name &#160; Age &#160; Position Dan L. Batrack &#160; 58 &#160; Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President &#160; &#160; &#160; Mr. Batrack joined our predecessor in 1980 and was named Chairman in January 2008. He has served as our Chief Executive Officer and a director since November 2005, and as our President since October 2008. Mr. Batrack has served in numerous capacities over the last 30 years, including project scientist, project manager, operations manager, Senior Vice President and President of an operating unit. He has managed complex programs for many small and Fortune 500 clients, both in the United States and internationally. Mr. Batrack holds a B.A. degree in Business Administration from the University of Washington. Steven M. Burdick &#160; 52 &#160; Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer &#160; &#160; &#160; Mr. Burdick has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since April 2011. He served as our Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller from January 2004 to March 2011. Mr. Burdick joined us in April 2003 as Vice President, Management Audit. Previously, Mr. Burdick served in financial executive management roles in private industry and with Ernst &#38; Young LLP. Mr. Burdick holds a B.S. degree in Business Administration from Santa Clara University and is a Certified Public Accountant. Ronald J. Chu &#160; 59 &#160; Executive Vice President and President of Resource Management and Energy &#160; &#160; &#160; Mr. Chu has served as the President of RME since June 2007, and he has served as the Chief Executive Officer of Coffey since January 2016. He has more than 16 years of experience with us, and has served in various technical and management capacities, including project and program manager, office manager, regional manager and Chief Operating Officer of the predecessor to RME. Mr. Chu was named a Vice President in 2001, and has served as president of several subsidiary companies during his tenure with us. He began his career as a civil/sanitary engineer in 1981 and entered the environmental consulting field in 1984. His career has included management of major assessment, engineering and remediation programs for major oil and gas companies, Fortune 100 manufacturers, energy suppliers, and government agencies. Mr. Chu is a registered professional engineer in several states and has authored numerous technical articles. He holds a B.S. in Civil Engineering from Northeastern University and an M.S. in Environmental Engineering from the University of Southern California. 

Name &#160; Age &#160; Position Leslie L. Shoemaker &#160; 59 &#160; Executive Vice President and President of Water, Environment and Infrastructure &#160; &#160; &#160; Dr. Shoemaker was named President of WEI in April 2015. Dr. Shoemaker joined us in 1991, and has previously served in various management capacities, including project and program manager, water resources manager and infrastructure group president. From 2005 to 2015, she led our strategic planning, business development and company-wide collaboration programs. Her technical expertise is in the management of large-scale watershed and master planning studies, development of modeling tools and application of optimization tools for decision making. Dr. Shoemaker holds a B.A. degree in Mathematics from Hamilton College, a Master of Engineering from Cornell University and a Ph.D. in Agricultural Engineering from the University of Maryland. William R. Brownlie &#160; 63 &#160; Senior Vice President, Chief Engineer and Corporate Risk Management Officer &#160; &#160; &#160; Dr. Brownlie was named Senior Vice President and Chief Engineer in September 2009, and Corporate Risk Management Officer in November 2013. From December 2005 to September 2009, he served as a Group President. Dr. Brownlie joined our predecessor in 1981 and was named a Senior Vice President in December 1993. Dr. Brownlie has managed various operating units and programs focusing on water resources and environmental services, including work with USACE, the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Bureau of Reclamation and DOE. He is a registered professional engineer and has a strong technical background in water resources. Dr. Brownlie holds B.S. and M.S. degrees in Civil Engineering from the State University of New York at Buffalo and a Ph.D. in Civil Engineering from the California Institute of Technology. Brian N. Carter &#160; 49 &#160; Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer &#160; &#160; &#160; Mr. Carter joined Tetra Tech as Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer in June 2011 and was appointed Senior Vice President in October 2012. Previously, Mr. Carter served in finance and auditing positions in private industry and with Ernst &#38; Young LLP. Mr. Carter holds a B.S. in Business Administration from Miami University and is a Certified Public Accountant. Craig L. Christensen &#160; 63 &#160; Senior Vice President, Chief Information Officer &#160; &#160; &#160; Mr. Christensen joined us in 1998 through the acquisition of our Tetra Tech NUS, Inc. ("NUS") subsidiary. Mr. Christensen is responsible for our information services and technologies, including the implementation of our enterprise resource planning system. Previously, Mr. Christensen held positions at NUS, Brown and Root Services, and Landmark Graphics subsidiaries of Halliburton Company where his responsibilities included contracts administration, finance, and system development. Prior to his service at Halliburton, Mr. Christensen held positions at Burroughs Corporation and Apple Computer. Mr. Christensen holds B.A. and M.B.A. degrees from Brigham Young University. 

Name &#160; Age &#160; Position Richard A. Lemmon &#160; 57 &#160; Senior Vice President, Corporate Administration &#160; &#160; &#160; Mr. Lemmon joined our predecessor in 1981 in a technical capacity and became a member of its corporate staff in a management position in 1985. In 1988, at the time of our predecessor's divestiture from Honeywell, Inc., Mr. Lemmon structured and managed many of our corporate functions. He is currently responsible for insurance, risk management, human resources, safety and facilities. Kevin P. McDonald &#160; 57 &#160; Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Leadership Development &#160; &#160; &#160; Mr. McDonald joined us in 2003 through the acquisition of Foster Wheeler Environmental Corporation. He is responsible for all areas of human resources ("HR"), including executive compensation, employee benefits, succession planning, human resources information systems, and employment law compliance. Prior to leading our corporate HR organization, Mr. McDonald was the HR Director for one of our subsidiaries. He has more than 30 years' experience in the engineering and construction services industry. Mr. McDonald earned a B.S. degree in Management from the University of Scranton and an M.B.A from Fairleigh Dickinson University. Janis B. Salin &#160; 63 &#160; Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary &#160; &#160; &#160; Ms. Salin joined us in February 2002. For the prior 18 years, Ms. Salin was a Principal with the law firm of Riordan &#38; McKinzie in Los Angeles, and served as Managing Principal of that firm from 1990 to 1992. She served as our outside counsel from the time of our formation in 1988. Ms. Salin holds B.A. and J.D. degrees from the University of California at Los Angeles. 

Available Information 

All of our periodic report filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), are made available, free of charge, through our website located at www.tetratech.com, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports. These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file with or furnish the reports to the SEC. You may also request an electronic or paper copy of these filings at no cost by writing or telephoning us at the following: Tetra Tech, Inc., Attention: Investor Relations, 3475 East Foothill Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91107, (626) 351-4664. 

