 Item 1 &#8211; Business 

General 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Banner Corporation (the Company) is a bank holding company incorporated in the State of Washington. We are primarily engaged in the business of planning, directing and coordinating the business activities of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Banner Bank and Islanders Bank. Banner Bank is a Washington-chartered commercial bank that conducts business from its main office in Walla Walla, Washington and, as of December 31, 2015 , its 199 &#32;branch offices and nine &#32;loan production offices &#32; located in Washington, Oregon, California, Utah and Idaho. Islanders Bank is also a Washington-chartered commercial bank that conducts business from three &#32;locations in San Juan County, Washington. Banner Corporation is subject to regulation by the the Federal Reserve Board. Banner Bank and Islanders Bank (the Banks) are subject to regulation by the Washington DFI and the FDIC. As of December 31, 2015 , we had total consolidated assets of $9.80 billion , net loans of $7.24 billion , total deposits of $8.06 billion &#32;and total shareholders&#8217; equity of $1.30 billion . Our voting common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the ticker symbol &#8220;BANR.&#8221; 

Banner Bank is a regional bank which offers a wide variety of commercial banking services and financial products to individuals, businesses and public sector entities in its primary market areas. Islanders Bank is a community bank which offers similar banking services to individuals, businesses and public entities located primarily in the San Juan Islands. The Banks' primary business is that of traditional banking institutions, accepting deposits and originating loans in locations surrounding our offices in portions of Washington, Oregon, California, Utah and Idaho. Banner Bank is also an active participant in the secondary market, engaging in mortgage banking operations largely through the origination and sale of one- to four-family and multi-family residential loans. Lending activities include commercial business and commercial real estate loans, agriculture business loans, construction and land development loans, one- to four-family residential loans and consumer loans. 

Since becoming a public company in 1995, we have invested significantly in expanding our branch and distribution systems with a primary emphasis on strengthening our market presence in our five primary markets in the Northwest. Those markets include the four largest metropolitan areas in the Northwest: the Puget Sound region of Washington and the greater Portland, Oregon, Boise, Idaho, and Spokane, Washington markets, as well as our historical base in the vibrant agricultural communities in the Columbia Basin region of Washington and Oregon. Our aggressive franchise expansion during this period included the acquisition and consolidation of ten commercial banks, as well as &#32; the opening of 28 new branches, the acquisition of seven branches and relocating 12 &#32; others. More recently, our acquisition activity, which included two whole bank transactions in 2015 and the purchase of six branches in 2014, has expanded our geographic focus to include additional markets in southwest Oregon, as well as select markets in California and Utah and more than doubled the size of the Company. The acquisition of Starbuck Bancshares, Inc. (Starbuck), the holding company for AmericanWest, which closed on October 1, 2015, with 98 &#32;branches and approximately $4.46 billion &#32;in assets, added scale to our operations, strengthened our Northwest presence and provided entry into attractive markets in California and Utah. Prior to that, the acquisition of Siuslaw Financial Group (Siuslaw), holding company of Siuslaw Bank, which closed on March 6, 2015, with ten &#32;branches and approximately $369.8 million &#32;in assets, added further market penetration in western Oregon, including the Eugene market. Both the Starbuck and Siuslaw acquisitions complemented our June 2014 purchase of six branches on the southern Oregon coast (Branch purchase), together giving us meaningful market share in the southwest Oregon market area and have had a significant impact on the operating results of Banner. For additional details regarding these acquisitions and merger related expenses, see Note 3, Business Combinations, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this report. 

In addition to the acquisitions, branch openings and relocations, since changing our name in 2001, we also have invested heavily in marketing campaigns designed to significantly increase the brand awareness for Banner Bank as well as expanded product offerings. These investments, which have been significant elements in our strategies to grow loans, deposits and customer relationships, have increased our presence within desirable marketplaces and allow us to better serve existing and future customers. This emphasis on growth and development resulted in an elevated level of non-interest expense during much of this period; however, we believe the expanded branch network, broader product line and heightened brand awareness &#32; have created a franchise that is well positioned and is allowing us to successfully execute on our super community bank model. That strategy is focused on delivering customers, including middle market and small businesses, business owners, their families and employees, a compelling value proposition by providing the financial sophistication and breadth of products of a regional bank while retaining the appeal, responsiveness, and superior service level of a community bank. 

Banner Corporation's successful execution on its super community bank model and its strategic initiatives, have delivered solid profitability and growth. We have made substantial progress on our goals to achieve and maintain the Company's moderate risk profile as well as to develop and continue strong earnings momentum. Highlights of this success have included substantial improvement in our asset quality, outstanding client acquisition and account growth, significantly increased non-interest-bearing deposit balances and strong revenue generation from core operations. 

Like most financial institutions, our operating results in recent years have been meaningfully impacted by the exceptionally low interest rate environment and our future operating results and financial performance will be significantly affected by the course of economic activity. However, over the past five years we have substantially added to our client relationships and account base, as well as significantly improved our risk profile by aggressively managing and reducing our problem assets, which has resulted in stronger and sustainable revenues and low credit costs, and which we believe has positioned the Company well to meet a challenging economic environment with continued success. 

As a result of elevated expenses related to the acquisition of Starbuck and Siuslaw, for the year ended December 31, 2015 , our net income decreased to $45.2 million , or $1.89 &#32;earnings per diluted share, compared to $54.1 million , or $2.79 &#32;earnings per diluted share, for the prior year. Our results for both years were significantly impacted by merger and acquisition activity and the related expenses. Acquisition-related expenses 

were $26.1 million , or $0.76 &#32;per diluted share net of tax benefit, in 2015 &#32;compared to $4.3 million , or $0.17 &#32;per diluted share net of tax benefit, in 2014 . Results for 2014 &#32;also included a $9.1 million &#32;bargain purchase gain related to the Branch purchase, which net of taxes contributed $0.30 &#32;to diluted net income per share. 

Our operating results depend primarily on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, consisting of loans and investment securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, composed primarily of customer deposits, Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines (FHLB) advances, other borrowings and junior subordinated debentures. Net interest income is primarily a function of our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the yield earned on interest-earning assets and the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities, as well as a function of the average balances of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Our net interest income before provision for loan losses increased 35% &#32;to $242.3 million &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to $179.9 million &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2014. 

Our net income also is affected by the level of our non-interest income, including deposit fees and service charges, results of mortgage banking operations, which includes loan origination and servicing fees and gains and losses on the sale of loans, and gains and losses on the sale of securities, as well as our non-interest expenses, provisions for loan losses and income tax provisions. In addition, net income is affected by the net change in the value of certain financial instruments carried at fair value. 

Our total revenues (net interest income before the provision for loan losses plus non-interest income) for 2015 &#32;increased to $304.6 million , compared to $234.9 million &#32;for 2014 . Our total non-interest income, which is a component of total revenue and includes the net gain on sale of securities and changes in the value of financial instruments carried at fair value, was $62.3 million &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to $55.0 million &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2014 . 

As a result of adequate reserves already in place as well as low levels of non-performing loans and net recoveries in both years, we did no t record a provision for loan losses in the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;or 2014 . Reflecting our continued focused efforts, non-performing loans decreased by 9% &#32;to $15.2 million &#32;at December 31, 2015 , compared to $16.7 million &#32;a year earlier. Our allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2015 &#32;was $78.0 million , representing 512% &#32;of non-performing loans. (See Note 5, Loans Receivable and the Allowance for Loan Losses, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as well as &#8220;Asset Quality&#8221; below.) 

Our non-interest expense increased to $236.6 million &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to $153.7 million &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2014 . The year-over-year increase in non-interest expense was largely attributable to acquisition-related expenses and incremental costs associated with operating the 98 &#32;branches acquired in the AmericanWest acquisition on October 1, 2015 and the ten &#32;Siuslaw Bank branches acquired in March 2015, as well as a full year's expense related to the Branch purchase and generally increased compensation, occupancy and payment and card processing services reflecting increased transaction volume. 

Recent Developments and Significant Events 

Acquisition of AmericanWest Bank 

As of the close of business on October 1, 2015, the Company completed its acquisition of Starbuck and its subsidiary, AmericanWest, a Washington state chartered commercial bank headquartered in Spokane, Washington with 98 &#32;branches serving markets in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, California and Utah. On that date Starbuck merged with and into Banner and AmericanWest merged with and into Banner Bank. The merged banks are operating as Banner Bank. Pursuant to the previously announced terms of the merger, the equityholders of Starbuck received an aggregate of $130.0 million &#32;in cash and 13.2 million &#32;shares of Banner common stock and non-voting common stock. At the time of closing, Starbuck had $4.46 billion &#32;in assets, $3.00 billion &#32;in loans and $3.64 billion &#32;in deposits. 

Acquisition of Siuslaw Financial Group, Inc. 

On March 6, 2015, the Company completed its acquisition of Siuslaw, the holding company of Siuslaw Bank, an Oregon state charted commercial bank. Siuslaw shareholders received consideration of $1.416 &#32;in cash plus 0.322 &#32;of a share of Banner common stock in exchange for each share of Siuslaw common stock, which reflects a payment of approximately 90% stock and 10% cash. Upon closing of the transaction Siuslaw was merged into Banner and Siuslaw Bank was merged into Banner Bank. At the time of closing, Siuslaw had $369.8 million &#32;in assets, $247.1 million &#32;in loans and $316.4 million &#32;in deposits. 

Acquisition of Six Sterling Savings Bank Branches 

Effective as of the close of business on June 20, 2014, Banner Bank completed the purchase of the six &#32;branches in Oregon from Umpqua Bank, successor to Sterling Savings Bank. In the aggregate, Banner Bank acquired $212.1 million &#32;in deposit accounts, $87.9 million &#32;in loans, and $3.1 million &#32;in branch properties. Banner Bank also received $127.6 million &#32;in cash from the transaction. 

Lending Activities 

General: &#32;&#32;All of our lending activities are conducted through Banner Bank, its subsidiary, Community Financial Corporation, a residential construction lender located in Portland, Oregon, and Islanders Bank. We offer a wide range of loan products to meet the demands of our customers and our loan portfolio is very diversified by product type, borrower and geographic location within our market area. We originate loans for our own loan portfolio and for sale in the secondary market. Management&#8217;s strategy has been to maintain a well diversified portfolio with a significant 

percentage of assets in the loan portfolio having more frequent interest rate repricing terms or shorter maturities than traditional long-term fixed-rate mortgage loans. As part of this effort, we offer a variety of floating or adjustable interest rate products that correlate more closely with our cost of interest bearing funds, particularly loans for commercial business and real estate, agricultural business, and construction and development purposes. However, in response to customer demand, we continue to originate fixed-rate loans, including fixed interest rate mortgage loans with terms of up to 30 years. The relative amount of fixed-rate loans and adjustable-rate loans that can be originated at any time is largely determined by the demand for each in a competitive environment. At December 31, 2015 , our net loan portfolio totaled $7.24 billion &#32;compared to $3.76 billion &#32;at December 31, 2014 . The AmericanWest acquisition accounted for $2.82 billion of the year-end loan portfolio and the Siuslaw Bank acquisition accounted for $227.1 million of the year-end loan portfolio, while organic loan growth accounted for $441.4 million of the increase from the prior year. 

Our lending activities are primarily directed toward the origination of real estate and commercial loans. Commercial real estate loans include owner-occupied, investment properties, multifamily residential real estate and construction and development loans for these types of properties. Although our level of activity and investment in commercial and multifamily real estate loans has been relatively stable for many years, we have experienced an increase in new originations in recent periods resulting in growth in these loan balances. In addition, the AmericanWest and Siuslaw Bank acquisitions substantially increased the balances of our commercial and multi-family real estate loans. Commercial real estate loans increased by $1.77 billion &#32;and multifamily loans increased by $309.1 million &#32;during the year ended December 31, 2015 . We also originate residential construction, land and land development loans and, although our portfolio balances are well below the peak levels before the recent recession, since 2011 we have experienced increased demand for one- to four-family construction loans. While our origination of construction and development loans has been significant during this period, balances in this portion of the portfolio have only increased modestly in recent periods as brisk sales of new homes have produced rapid turnover through repayments. Our commercial business lending is directed toward meeting the credit and related deposit and treasury management needs of various small- to medium-sized business and agribusiness borrowers operating in our primary market areas. In recent years, our commercial business lending has also included participation in certain national syndicated loans. Reflecting the expanding Northwest economy, demand for these types of commercial business loans has strengthened and our production levels have increased in recent periods. Largely as a result of the AmericanWest acquisition, commercial and agricultural business loans increased by $622.0 million &#32;during the year ended December 31, 2015 . 

Our residential mortgage loan originations have been relatively strong in recent years, as exceptionally low interest rates have supported demand for loans to refinance existing debt as well as loans to finance home purchases. However, most of the one- to four-family loans that we originate are sold in the secondary markets with net gains on sales and loan servicing fees reflected in our revenues from mortgage banking. As a result, excluding loans acquired through the acquisitions, growth in this portion of our portfolio has been modest. At December 31, 2015 , our outstanding balance for residential mortgages was $952.6 million , an increase of $415.5 million &#32;compared to a year earlier largely as a result of the acquisitions. 

Our consumer loan activity is primarily directed at meeting demand from our existing deposit customers. We have increased our emphasis on consumer lending in recent years, and while demand for consumer loans has been modest during most of this period as we believe many consumers have been focused on reducing their personal debt, we had meaningful growth from originations in 2014 &#32;and 2015 , primarily related to increased home equity lines of credit. More recently, the AmericanWest acquisition nearly doubled the size of the consumer loan portfolio, although it remains a relatively small portion of the total loan portfolio. At December 31, 2015 , consumer loans, including consumer loans secured by one- to four-family residences, increased to $636.9 million , an increase of $287.7 million &#32;compared to a year earlier largely as a result of the acquisitions of AmericanWest and Siuslaw Bank. 

For additional information concerning our loan portfolio, see Item 7 of this report, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition&#8212;Comparison of Financial Condition at December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 &#8212;Loans and Lending&#8221; including Tables 3 and 4, which sets forth the composition and geographic concentration of our loan portfolio, and Tables 5 and 6, which contain information regarding the loans maturing in our portfolio. 

One- to Four-Family Residential Real Estate Lending: At both Banner Bank and Islanders Bank, we originate loans secured by first mortgages on one- to four-family residences in the markets we serve. Through our mortgage banking activities, we sell residential loans on either a servicing-retained or servicing-released basis. In recent years, we have generally sold a significant portion of our conventional residential mortgage originations and nearly all of our government insured loans in the secondary market. At December 31, 2015 , $952.6 million , or 13% &#32;of our loan portfolio, consisted of permanent loans on one- to four-family residences. 

We offer fixed- and adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs) at rates and terms competitive with market conditions, primarily with the intent of selling these loans into the secondary market. Fixed-rate loans generally are offered on a fully amortizing basis for terms ranging from 10 to 30 years at interest rates and fees that reflect current secondary market pricing. Most ARM products offered adjust annually after an initial period ranging from one to five years, subject to a limitation on the annual adjustment and a lifetime rate cap. For a small portion of the portfolio, where the initial period exceeds one year, the first interest rate change may exceed the annual limitation on subsequent adjustments. Our ARM products most frequently adjust based upon the average yield on Treasury securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year or certain London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) indices plus a margin or spread above the index. ARM loans held in our portfolio may allow for interest-only payments for an initial period up to five years but do not provide for negative amortization of principal and carry no prepayment restrictions. The retention of ARM loans in our loan portfolio can help reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates. However, borrower demand for ARM loans versus fixed-rate mortgage loans is a function of the level of interest rates, the expectations of changes in the level of interest rates and the difference between the initial interest rates and fees charged for each type of loan. In recent years, borrower demand for ARM loans has been limited and we have chosen not to aggressively pursue ARM loans by offering minimally profitable, deeply discounted teaser rates or option-payment ARM products. As a result, ARM loans have represented only a small portion of our loans originated during recent periods. 

Our residential loans are generally underwritten and documented in accordance with the guidelines established by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac or FHLMC) and the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae or FNMA). Government insured loans are underwritten and documented in accordance with the guidelines established by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the Veterans Administration (VA). In the loan approval process, we assess the borrower&#8217;s ability to repay the loan, the adequacy of the proposed security, the employment stability of the borrower and the creditworthiness of the borrower. For ARM loans, our standard practice provides for underwriting based upon fully indexed interest rates and payments. Generally, we will lend up to 95% of the lesser of the appraised value or purchase price of the property on conventional loans, although higher loan-to-value ratios are available on secondary market programs. We require private mortgage insurance on conventional residential loans with a loan-to-value ratio at origination exceeding 80%. &#32; 

Construction and Land Lending: Historically, we have invested a significant portion of our loan portfolio in residential construction and land loans to professional home builders and developers. We also make construction loans to qualified owner occupants, which upon completion of the construction phase convert to long-term amortizing one-to-four family residential loans that are eligible for sale in the secondary market. We regularly monitor our construction and land loan portfolios and the economic conditions and housing inventory in each of our markets and increase or decrease this type of lending as we observe market conditions change. Beginning in 2011, in response to improvement in certain sub-markets, our residential construction and land and land development lending has been increasing and has made a meaningful contribution to our net interest income and profitability. To a lesser extent, we also originate construction loans for commercial and multifamily real estate. Although well diversified with respect to sub-markets, price ranges and borrowers, our construction, land and land development loans are significantly concentrated in the greater Puget Sound region of Washington State and the Portland, Oregon market area. At December 31, 2015 , construction, land and land development loans totaled $574.4 million , or 8% &#32;of total loans; the balance was primarily comprised of one- to four-family construction and residential land or land development loans, and to a lesser extent commercial and multifamily real estate construction loans and commercial land or land development loans. 

Construction and land lending affords us the opportunity to achieve higher interest rates and fees with shorter terms to maturity than are usually available on other types of lending. Construction and land lending, however, involves a higher degree of risk than other lending opportunities because of the inherent difficulty in estimating both a property&#8217;s value at completion of the project and the estimated cost of the project. If the estimate of construction cost proves to be inaccurate, we may be required to advance funds beyond the amount originally committed to permit completion of the project. If the estimate of value upon completion proves to be inaccurate, we may be confronted at, or prior to, the maturity of the loan with a project the value of which is insufficient to assure full repayment. Disagreements between borrowers and builders and the failure of builders to pay subcontractors may also jeopardize projects. Loans to builders to construct homes for which no purchaser has been identified carry additional risk because the payoff for the loan is dependent on the builder&#8217;s ability to sell the property before the construction loan is due. We attempt to address these risks by adhering to strict underwriting policies, disbursement procedures and monitoring practices. 

Construction loans made by us include those with a sales contract or permanent loan in place for the finished homes and those for which purchasers for the finished homes may be identified either during or following the construction period. We actively monitor the number of unsold homes in our construction loan portfolio and local housing markets to attempt to maintain an appropriate balance between home sales and new loan originations. The maximum number of speculative loans (loans that are not pre-sold) approved for each builder is based on a combination of factors, including the financial capacity of the builder, the market demand for the finished product and the ratio of sold to unsold inventory the builder maintains. We have attempted to diversify the risk associated with speculative construction lending by doing business with a large number of small and mid-sized builders spread over a relatively large geographic region with numerous sub-markets within our service area. 

Loans for the construction of one- to four-family residences are generally made for a term of twelve to eighteen months. Our loan policies include maximum loan-to-value ratios of up to 80% for speculative loans. Individual speculative loan requests are supported by an independent appraisal of the property, a set of plans, a cost breakdown and a completed specifications form. Underwriting is focused on the borrowers&#8217; financial strength, credit history and demonstrated ability to produce a quality product and effectively market and manage their operations. All speculative construction loans must be approved by senior loan officers. 

On a more limited basis, we also make land loans to developers, builders and individuals to finance the acquisition and/or development of improved lots or unimproved land. In making land loans, we follow underwriting policies and disbursement and monitoring procedures similar to those for construction loans. The initial term on land loans is typically one to three years with interest only payments, payable monthly, and provisions for principal reduction as lots are sold and released from the lien of the mortgage. 

Commercial and Multifamily Real Estate Lending: We originate loans secured by multifamily and commercial real estate including, as noted above, loans for construction of multifamily and commercial real estate projects. Commercial real estate loans are made for both owner-occupied and investor properties. At December 31, 2015 , our loan portfolio included $1.77 billion &#32;in non-owner-occupied commercial real estate loans, $1.33 billion &#32;in owner-occupied commercial real estate loans and $473.0 million &#32;in multifamily loans which in aggregate comprised 49% &#32;of our total loans. Multifamily and commercial real estate lending affords us an opportunity to receive interest at rates higher than those generally available from one- to four-family residential lending. However, loans secured by multifamily and commercial properties are generally greater in amount, more difficult to evaluate and monitor and, therefore, potentially riskier than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Because payments on loans secured by multifamily and commercial properties are often dependent on the successful operation and management of the properties, repayment of these loans may be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy. In addition, many of our commercial and multifamily real estate loans often are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. In originating multifamily and commercial real estate loans, we consider the location, marketability and overall attractiveness of the properties. Our underwriting guidelines for multifamily and commercial real estate loans require an appraisal from a qualified independent appraiser and an economic analysis of each property with regard to the annual revenue and expenses, debt service coverage and 

fair value to determine the maximum loan amount. In the approval process we assess the borrowers&#8217; willingness and ability to manage the property and repay the loan and the adequacy of the collateral in relation to the loan amount. 

Multifamily and commercial real estate loans originated by us are both fixed- and adjustable-rate loans generally with intermediate terms of five to ten years. A significant portion of our multifamily and commercial real estate loans are linked to various FHLB advance rates, certain prime rates or other market rate indices. Rates on these adjustable-rate loans generally adjust with a frequency of one to five years after an initial fixed-rate period ranging from one to ten years. Our commercial real estate portfolio consists of loans on a variety of property types with no large concentrations by property type, location or borrower. At December 31, 2015 , the average size of our commercial real estate loans was $632,000 &#32;and the largest commercial real estate loan in our portfolio was approximately $19.3 million . 

Commercial Business Lending: We are active in small- to medium-sized business lending and are engaged in agricultural lending primarily by providing crop production loans. Our commercial bankers are focused on local markets and devote a great deal of effort to developing customer relationships and providing these types of borrowers with a full array of products and services delivered in a thorough and responsive manner. While also strengthening our commitment to small business lending, our experienced commercial bankers and and senior credit staff focus on corporate lending opportunities for borrowers with credit needs generally in a $3 million to $15 million range. In addition to providing earning assets, commercial business lending has helped us increase our deposit base. In recent years, our commercial business lending has included modest participation in certain national syndicated loans, including shared national credits. We also originate smaller balance business loans principally through our retail branch network, using our Quick Step business loan program, which is closely aligned with our consumer lending operations and relies on centralized underwriting procedures. Quick Step business loans and lines of credit are available from $5,000 to $500,000 and owner-occupied real estate loans are available up to $1.0 million. 

Commercial business loans may entail greater risk than other types of loans. Commercial business loans may be unsecured or secured by special purpose or rapidly depreciating assets, such as equipment, inventory and receivables, which may not provide an adequate source of repayment on defaulted loans. In addition, commercial business loans are dependent on the borrower&#8217;s continuing financial strength and management ability, as well as market conditions for various products, services and commodities. For these reasons, commercial business loans generally provide higher yields or related revenue opportunities than many other types of loans but also require more administrative and management attention. Loan terms, including the fixed or adjustable interest rate, the loan maturity and the collateral considerations, vary significantly and are negotiated on an individual loan basis. 

We underwrite our commercial business loans on the basis of the borrower&#8217;s cash flow and ability to service the debt from earnings rather than on the basis of the underlying collateral value. We seek to structure these loans so that they have more than one source of repayment. The borrower is required to provide us with sufficient information to allow us to make a prudent lending determination. In most instances, this information consists of at least three years of financial statements, tax returns, a statement of projected cash flows, current financial information on any guarantor and information about the collateral. Loans to closely held businesses typically require personal guarantees by the principals. Our commercial business loan portfolio is geographically dispersed across the market areas serviced by our branch network and there are no significant concentrations by industry or products. 

Our commercial business loans may be structured as term loans or as lines of credit. Commercial business term loans are generally made to finance the purchase of fixed assets and have maturities of five years or less. Commercial business lines of credit are typically made for the purpose of providing working capital and are usually approved with a term of one year. Adjustable- or floating-rate loans are primarily tied to various prime rate or LIBOR indices. At December 31, 2015 , commercial business loans totaled $1.21 billion , or 17% &#32;of our total loans, including $123.7 million &#32;of shared national credits. 

Agricultural Lending: Agriculture is a major industry in several of our markets. We make agricultural loans to borrowers with a strong capital base, sufficient management depth, proven ability to operate through agricultural cycles, reliable cash flows and adequate financial reporting. Payments on agricultural loans depend, to a large degree, on the results of operations of the related farm entity. The repayment is also subject to other economic and weather conditions as well as market prices for agricultural products, which can be highly volatile. At December 31, 2015 , agricultural business loans, including collateral secured loans to purchase farm land and equipment, totaled $376.5 million , or 5% &#32;of our loan portfolio. 

Agricultural operating loans generally are made as a percentage of the borrower&#8217;s anticipated income to support budgeted operating expenses. These loans are secured by a blanket lien on all crops, livestock, equipment, accounts and products and proceeds thereof. In the case of crops, consideration is given to projected yields and prices from each commodity. The interest rate is normally floating based on the prime rate or a LIBOR index plus a negotiated margin. Because these loans are made to finance a farm or ranch&#8217;s annual operations, they are usually written on a one-year review and renewable basis. The renewal is dependent upon the prior year&#8217;s performance and the forthcoming year&#8217;s projections as well as the overall financial strength of the borrower. We carefully monitor these loans and related variance reports on income and expenses compared to budget estimates. To meet the seasonal operating needs of a farm, borrowers may qualify for single payment notes, revolving lines of credit and/or non-revolving lines of credit. 

In underwriting agricultural operating loans, we consider the cash flow of the borrower based upon the expected operating results as well as the value of collateral used to secure the loans. Collateral generally consists of cash crops produced by the farm, such as milk, grains, fruit, grass seed, peas, sugar beets, mint, onions, potatoes, corn and alfalfa or livestock. In addition to considering cash flow and obtaining a blanket security interest in the farm&#8217;s cash crop, we may also collateralize an operating loan with the farm&#8217;s operating equipment, breeding stock, real estate and federal agricultural program payments to the borrower. 

We also originate loans to finance the purchase of farm equipment. Loans to purchase farm equipment are made for terms of up to seven years. On occasion, we also originate agricultural real estate loans secured primarily by first liens on farmland and improvements thereon located in our market areas, although generally only to service the needs of our existing customers. Loans are written in amounts ranging from 50% to 75% of the tax assessed or appraised value of the property for terms of five to 20 years. These loans generally have interest rates that adjust at least every five years based upon a Treasury index or FHLB advance rate plus a negotiated margin. Fixed-rate loans are granted on terms usually not to exceed five years. In originating agricultural real estate loans, we consider the debt service coverage of the borrower&#8217;s cash flow, the appraised value of the underlying property, the experience and knowledge of the borrower, and the borrower&#8217;s past performance with us and/or the market area. These loans normally are not made to start-up businesses and are reserved for existing customers with substantial equity and a proven history. 

Among the more common risks to agricultural lending can be weather conditions and disease. These risks may be mitigated through multi-peril crop insurance. Commodity prices also present a risk, which may be reduced by the use of set price contracts. Normally, required beginning and projected operating margins provide for reasonable reserves to offset unexpected yield and price deficiencies. In addition to these risks, we also consider management succession, life insurance and business continuation plans when evaluating agricultural loans. 

Consumer and Other Lending: We originate a variety of consumer loans, including home equity lines of credit, automobile, boat and recreational vehicle loans and loans secured by deposit accounts. While consumer lending has traditionally been a small part of our business, with loans made primarily to accommodate our existing customer base, it has received consistent emphasis in recent years. Part of this emphasis includes a Banner Bank-owned credit card program. Similar to other consumer loan programs, we focus this credit card program on our existing customer base to add to the depth of our customer relationships. In addition to earning balances, credit card accounts produce non-interest revenues through interchange fees and other activity-based revenues. Our underwriting of consumer loans is focused on the borrower&#8217;s credit history and ability to repay the debt as evidenced by documented sources of income. At December 31, 2015 , we had $636.9 million , or 9% &#32;of our loan portfolio, in consumer related loans, including $478.4 million , or 7% &#32;of our loan portfolio, in consumer loans secured by one- to four-family residences. 

Similar to commercial business loans, our consumer loans often entail greater risk than first-lien residential mortgage loans. Home equity lines of credit generally entail greater risk than do one- to four-family residential mortgage loans where we are in the first lien position. For those home equity lines secured by a second mortgage, it is less likely that we will be successful in recovering all of our loan proceeds in the event of default. Our foreclosure on these loans requires that the value of the property be sufficient to cover the repayment of the first mortgage loan, as well as the costs associated with foreclosure. In the case of consumer loans which are unsecured or secured by rapidly depreciating assets such as automobiles, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance as a result of the greater likelihood of damage, loss or depreciation. The remaining deficiency often does not warrant further substantial collection efforts against the borrower. In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower&#8217;s continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount which can be recovered on these consumer loans. Loans that we purchased, or indirectly originated, may also give rise to claims and defenses by a consumer loan borrower against an assignee of such loans such as us, and a borrower may be able to assert against the assignee claims and defenses that it has against the seller of the underlying collateral. 

Loan Solicitation and Processing: We originate real estate loans in our market areas by direct solicitation of real estate brokers, builders, developers, depositors, walk-in customers and visitors to our Internet website. One- to four-family residential loan applications are taken by our mortgage loan officers or through our Internet website and are processed in branch or regional locations. In addition, we have specialized origination units, focused on construction and land development, commercial real estate and multifamily loans. Most underwriting and loan administration functions for our real estate loans are performed by loan personnel at central locations. 

In addition to commercial real estate loans, our commercial bankers solicit commercial and agricultural business loans through call programs focused on local businesses and farmers. While commercial bankers are delegated reasonable commitment authority based upon their qualifications, credit decisions on significant commercial and agricultural loans are made by senior loan officers or in certain instances by the Board of Directors of Banner Bank and Islanders Bank. 

We originate consumer loans and small business (including Quick Step) commercial business loans through various marketing efforts directed primarily toward our existing deposit and loan customers. Consumer loans and Quick Step commercial business loan applications are primarily underwritten and documented by centralized administrative personnel. 

Loan Originations, Sales and Purchases 

While we originate a variety of loans, our ability to originate each type of loan is dependent upon the relative customer demand and competition in each market we serve. For the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , we originated loans, net of repayments, including our participation in syndicated loans and loans held for sale of $741.7 million &#32;and $506.0 million , respectively. The increase in originations net of repayments for 2015 &#32;compared with 2014 &#32;largely reflects increased production capacity, including production from the former AmericanWest and Siuslaw Bank lending teams, with both periods being effected by high levels of repayments. 

We sell many of our newly originated one- to four-family residential mortgage loans to secondary market purchasers as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. In addition, beginning in 2015, in conjunction with the acquisition of AmericanWest, we began to sell many of our newly originated multifamily loans to the secondary market purchasers. Originations of loans for sale increased to $709.0 million &#32;for the year 

ended December 31, 2015 &#32;from $361.9 million &#32;during 2014 , reflecting low interest rates, strong housing markets and our increased production capacity, including $41.2 million of multifamily held for sale loan production subsequent to the acquisition of AmericanWest. Sales of loans generally are beneficial to us because these sales may generate income at the time of sale, provide funds for additional lending and other investments, increase liquidity or reduce interest rate risk. During the year ended December 31, 2015 , we sold $677.2 million &#32;of loans held for sale compared to $367.9 million &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2014 . The held for sale loans sold in 2015 were primarily one- to four-family loans, although $66.8 million of multifamily loans held for sale were sold in the fourth quarter of 2015. In 2014 all held for sale loans sold were one- to four-family loans. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2015 , we sold $85.1 million of portfolio multifamily loans acquired through the merger with AmericanWest. We sell loans on both a servicing-retained and a servicing-released basis. All loans are sold without recourse. The decision to hold or sell loans is based on asset liability management goals, strategies and policies and on market conditions. See &#8220;Loan Servicing.&#8221; &#160; 

We periodically purchase whole loans and loan participation interests or participate in syndicates originating new loans, including shared national credits, primarily during periods of reduced loan demand in our primary market area and at times to support our Community Reinvestment Act lending activities. Any such purchases or loan participations are made generally consistent with our underwriting standards; however, the loans may be located outside of our normal lending area. During the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , we purchased $323.5 million &#32;and $194.4 million , respectively, of loans and loan participation interests. 

Loan Servicing 

We receive fees from a variety of institutional owners in return for performing the traditional services of collecting individual payments and managing portfolios of sold loans. At December 31, 2015 , we were servicing $2.33 billion &#32;of loans for others. Loan servicing includes processing payments, accounting for loan funds and collecting and paying real estate taxes, hazard insurance and other loan-related items such as private mortgage insurance. In addition to earning fee income, we retain certain amounts in escrow for the benefit of the lender for which we incur no interest expense but are able to invest the funds into earning assets. 

Mortgage Servicing Rights: We record mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) with respect to loans we originate and sell in the secondary market on a servicing-retained basis. The value of MSRs is capitalized and amortized in proportion to, and over the period of, the estimated future net servicing income. Management periodically evaluates the estimates and assumptions used to determine the carrying values of MSRs and the amortization of MSRs. MSRs generally are adversely affected by higher levels of current or anticipated prepayments resulting from decreasing interest rates. These carrying values are adjusted when the valuation indicates the carrying value is impaired. At December 31, 2015 , our MSRs were carried at a value of $13.3 million , net of amortization. For additional information see Note 17, Goodwill, Other Intangible Assets and Mortgage Servicing Rights, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Asset Quality 

Classified Assets: &#160; State and federal regulations require that the Banks review and classify their problem assets on a regular basis. In addition, in connection with examinations of insured institutions, state and federal examiners have authority to identify problem assets and, if appropriate, require them to be classified. Historically, we have not had any meaningful differences of opinion with the examiners with respect to asset classification. Banner Bank&#8217;s Credit Policy Division reviews detailed information with respect to the composition and performance of the loan portfolios, including information on risk concentrations, delinquencies and classified assets for both Banner Bank and Islanders Bank. The Credit Policy Division approves all recommendations for new classified loans or, in the case of smaller-balance homogeneous loans including residential real estate and consumer loans, it has approved policies governing such classifications, or changes in classifications, and develops and monitors action plans to resolve the problems associated with the assets. The Credit Policy Division also approves recommendations for establishing the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. Significant problem loans are transferred to Banner Bank&#8217;s Special Assets Department for resolution or collection activities. The Banks&#8217; and Banner Corporation&#8217;s Boards of Directors are given a detailed report on classified assets and asset quality at least quarterly. For additional information regarding asset quality and non-performing loans, see Item 7 of this report, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition&#8212;Comparison of Financial Condition at December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 &#8212;Asset Quality,&#8221; and Table 11 contained therein. 

Allowance for Loan Losses: &#160; In originating loans, we recognize that losses will be experienced and that the risk of loss will vary with, among other things, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan, general economic conditions and, in the case of a secured loan, the quality of the security for the loan. As a result, we maintain an allowance for loan losses consistent with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) guidelines. We increase our allowance for loan losses by charging provisions for possible loan losses against our income. The allowance for losses on loans is maintained at a level which, in management&#8217;s judgment, is sufficient to provide for probable losses based on evaluating known and inherent risks in the loan portfolio and upon continuing analysis of the factors underlying the quality of the loan portfolio. For additional information concerning our allowance for loan losses, see Item 7 of this report, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition&#8212;Comparison of Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2015 and 2014&#8212;Provision and Allowance for Loan Losses,&#8221; and Tables 14 and 15 contained therein. 

Real Estate Owned: Real estate owned (REO) is property acquired by foreclosure or receiving a deed in lieu of foreclosure, and is recorded at the estimated fair value of the property, less expected selling costs. Development and improvement costs relating to the property are capitalized to the extent they add value to the property. The carrying value of the property is periodically evaluated by management and, if necessary, allowances are established to reduce the carrying value to net realizable value. Gains or losses at the time the property is sold are credited or charged to operations in the period in which they are realized. The amounts we will ultimately recover from REO may differ substantially from the carrying value of the assets because of market factors beyond our control or because of changes in our strategies for recovering the 

investment. For additional information on REO, see Item 7 of this report, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition&#8212;Comparison of Financial Condition at December 31, 2015 and 2014&#8212;Asset Quality&#8221; and Table 11 contained therein and Note 6, Real Estate Owned, Held for Sale, Net, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Investment Activities 

Investment Securities 

Under Washington state law, banks are permitted to invest in various types of marketable securities. Authorized securities include but are not limited to Treasury obligations, securities of various federal agencies (including government-sponsored enterprises), mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, certain certificates of deposit of insured banks and savings institutions, bankers&#8217; acceptances, repurchase agreements, federal funds, commercial paper, corporate debt and equity securities and obligations of states and their political subdivisions. Our investment policies are designed to provide and maintain adequate liquidity and to generate favorable rates of return without incurring undue interest rate or credit risk. Our policies generally limit investments to U.S. Government and agency (including government-sponsored entities) securities, municipal bonds, certificates of deposit, corporate debt obligations and mortgage-backed securities. Investment in mortgage-backed securities may include those issued or guaranteed by Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae, Government National Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae or GNMA) and investment grade privately-issued mortgage-backed securities, as well as collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs). All of our investment securities, including those that have high credit ratings, are subject to market risk in so far as a change in market rates of interest or other conditions may cause a change in an investment&#8217;s earnings performance and/or market value. 

At December 31, 2015 , our consolidated investment portfolio totaled $1.39 billion &#32;and consisted principally of U.S. Government agency obligations, mortgage-backed securities, municipal bonds, corporate debt obligations, and asset-backed securities. From time to time, investment levels may be increased or decrease in order to manage balance sheet liquidity, interest rate risk, market risk and provide appropriate risk adjusted returns. The acquisition of AmericanWest significantly added to the size of our investment portfolio, in particular our residential mortgage-backed securities and municipal bonds, although certain securities acquired in that transaction were sold prior to year-end, as we intentionally reduced total assets below $10.0 billion by December 31, 2015 &#32;to avoid the additional regulatory consequences associated with exceeding that asset size. For additional information regarding these regulatory consequences, see Item 1A, Risk Factors, "We may be subject to additional regulatory scrutiny if and when Banner or Banner Bank's total assets exceed $10.0 billion." 

For detailed information on our investment securities, see Item 7, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition&#8212;Comparison of Financial Condition at December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 &#8212;Investments,&#8221; and Tables 1 and 2 contained therein. 

Derivatives 

The Company, through its Banner Bank subsidiary, is party to various derivative instruments that are used for asset and liability management and customer financing needs. Derivative instruments are contracts between two or more parties that have a notional amount and an underlying variable, require no net investment and allow for the net settlement of positions. The notional amount serves as the basis for the payment provision of the contract and takes the form of units, such as shares or dollars. The underlying variable represents a specified interest rate, index, or other component. The interaction between the notional amount and the underlying variable determines the number of units to be exchanged between the parties and influences the market value of the derivative contract. We obtain dealer quotations to value our derivative contracts. 

Our predominant derivative and hedging activities involve interest rate swaps related to certain term loans and forward sales contracts associated with mortgage banking activities. Generally, these instruments help us manage exposure to market risk and meet customer financing needs. Market risk represents the possibility that economic value or net interest income will be adversely affected by fluctuations in external factors such as market-driven interest rates and prices or other economic factors. 

Derivatives Designated in Hedge Relationships 

Our fixed rate loans result in exposure to losses in value or net interest income as interest rates change. The risk management objective for hedging fixed rate loans is to effectively convert the fixed rate received to a floating rate. We have hedged our exposure to changes in the fair value of certain fixed rate loans through the use of interest rate swaps. For a qualifying fair value hedge, changes in the value of the derivatives are recognized in current period earnings along with the corresponding changes in the fair value of the designated hedged item attributable to the risk being hedged. 

Derivatives Not Designated in Hedge Relationships 

Interest Rate Swaps: &#32;&#32;Banner Bank uses an interest rate swap program for commercial loan customers, in which, we provide the client with a variable rate loan and enter into an interest rate swap in which the client receives a fixed rate payment in exchange for a variable rate payment. We offset our risk exposure by entering into an offsetting interest rate swap with a dealer counterparty for the same notional amount and length of term as the client interest rate swap providing the dealer counterparty with a fixed rate payment in exchange for a variable rate payment. Banner Bank also has a few interest rate swaps from a prior interest rate swap program that were also not designated in hedge relationships. These swaps do not qualify as designated hedges; therefore, each swap is accounted for as a free standing derivative. 

Mortgage Banking: &#32;&#32;In the normal course of business, we sell originated one- to four-family residential mortgage loans into the secondary mortgage loan markets. During the period of loan origination and prior to the sale of the loans in the secondary market, we have exposure to 

movements in interest rates associated with written rate lock commitments with potential borrowers to originate loans that are intended to be sold and for closed loans that are awaiting sale and delivery into the secondary market. 

Written loan commitments that relate to the origination of mortgage loans that will be held for resale are considered free-standing derivatives and do not qualify for hedge accounting. Written loan commitments generally have a term of up to 60 days before the closing of the loan. The loan commitment does not bind the potential borrower to enter into the loan, nor does it guarantee that we will approve the potential borrower for the loan. Therefore, when determining fair value, we make estimates of expected &#8220;fallout&#8221; (loan commitments not expected to close), using models which consider cumulative historical fallout rates, current market interest rates and other factors. 

Written loan commitments in which the borrower has locked in an interest rate results in market risk to us to the extent market interest rates change from the rate quoted to the borrower. We economically hedge the risk of changing interest rates associated with our interest rate lock commitments by entering into forward sales contracts. 

Mortgage loans which are held for sale are subject to changes in fair value due to fluctuations in interest rates from the loan's closing date through the date of sale of the loans into the secondary market. Typically, the fair value of these loans declines when interest rates increase and rises when interest rates decrease. To mitigate this risk, we enter into forward sales contracts on a significant portion of these loans to provide an economic hedge against those changes in fair value. The hedges associated with mortgage loans held for sale and the forward sales contracts are recorded at fair value with ineffective changes in value recorded in current earnings as loan sales income. 

We are exposed to credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparty to these agreements. Credit risk of the financial contract is controlled through the credit approval, limits, and monitoring procedures and we do not expect the counterparties to fail their obligations. 

In connection with the interest rate swaps between Banner Bank and the dealer counterparties, the agreements contain a provision where if Banner Bank fails to maintain its status as a well/adequately capitalized institution, then the counterparty could terminate the derivative positions and Banner Bank would be required to settle its obligations. Similarly, we could be required to settle our obligations under certain of these agreements if specific regulatory events occur, such as a publicly issued prompt corrective action directive, cease and desist order, or a capital maintenance agreement that required Banner Bank to maintain a specific capital level. If we had breached any of these provisions at December 31, 2015 &#32;or 2014 , we could have been required to settle our obligations under the agreements at the termination value. We generally post collateral against derivative liabilities in the form of government agency-issued bonds, mortgage-backed securities, or commercial mortgage-backed securities. 

Derivative assets and liabilities are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet and do not take into account the effects of master netting agreements. Master netting agreements allow us to settle all derivative contracts held with a single counterparty on a net basis and to offset net derivative positions with related collateral where applicable. 

Deposit Activities and Other Sources of Funds 

General: Deposits, FHLB advances (or other borrowings) and loan repayments are our major sources of funds for lending and other investment purposes. Scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, while deposit inflows and outflows and loan prepayments are influenced by general economic, interest rate and money market conditions and may vary significantly. Borrowings may be used on a short-term basis to compensate for reductions in the availability of funds from other sources. Borrowings may also be used on a longer-term basis to fund loans and investments, as well as to manage interest rate risk. 

We compete with other financial institutions and financial intermediaries in attracting deposits. There is strong competition for transaction balances and savings deposits from commercial banks, credit unions and non-bank corporations, such as securities brokerage companies, mutual funds and other diversified companies, some of which have nationwide networks of offices. Much of the focus of our branch expansion, relocations and renovation and advertising and marketing campaigns has been directed toward attracting additional deposit customer relationships and balances. In addition, our electronic banking activities including debit card and automated teller machine (ATM) programs, on-line Internet banking services and, most recently, customer remote deposit and mobile banking capabilities are all directed at providing products and services that enhance customer relationships and result in growing deposit balances as well as fee income. Growing core deposits (transaction and savings accounts) is a fundamental element of our business strategy. Core deposits increased to 83% &#32;of total deposits at December 31, 2015 &#32;compared to 80% &#32;a year earlier and 76% &#32;two years ago. 

Deposit Accounts: We generally attract deposits from within our primary market areas by offering a broad selection of deposit instruments, including demand checking accounts, &#32; interest-bearing checking accounts, money market deposit accounts, regular savings accounts, certificates of deposit, cash management services and retirement savings plans. Deposit account terms vary according to the minimum balance required, the time periods the funds must remain on deposit and the interest rate, among other factors. In determining the terms of deposit accounts, we consider current market interest rates, profitability to us, matching deposit and loan products and customer preferences and concerns. At December 31, 2015 , we had $8.06 billion &#32;of deposits. In addition to our organic growth in deposits, the acquisitions of AmericanWest and Siuslaw Bank resulted in a $3.82 billion increase in deposits, including $1.09 billion in non-interest bearing deposits, $2.11 billion in interest-bearing transaction and savings accounts, and $620.8 million in certificates of deposit as of December 31, 2015. For additional information concerning our deposit accounts, see Item 7 in this report, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition&#8212;Comparison of Financial Condition at December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 &#8212;Deposit Accounts,&#8221; including Table 7 contained therein, which sets forth the balances of deposits in the various types of accounts, and Table 8, which sets forth the amount of our certificates of deposit greater than $100,000 by time remaining until maturity as of December 31, 2015 . In addition, see Note 8, Deposits of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Borrowings: While deposits are the primary source of funds for our lending and investment activities and for general business purposes, we also use borrowings to supplement our supply of lendable funds, to meet deposit withdrawal requirements and to more efficiently leverage our capital position. The FHLB serves as our primary borrowing source. &#32; Although in recent years we have significantly reduced our use of FHLB advances, we assumed additional advances in connection with the AmericanWest acquisition. The FHLB provides credit for member financial institutions such as Banner Bank and Islanders Bank. As members, the Banks are required to own capital stock in the FHLB and are authorized to apply for advances on the security of that stock and certain of their mortgage loans and securities provided certain credit worthiness standards have been met. Limitations on the amount of advances are based on the financial condition of the member institution, the adequacy of collateral pledged to secure the credit, and FHLB stock ownership requirements. At December 31, 2015 , we had $133.4 million &#32;of borrowings from the FHLB. At that date, Banner Bank had been authorized by the FHLB to borrow up to $1.77 billion &#32;under a blanket floating lien security agreement, while Islanders Bank was approved to borrow up to $28.0 million &#32;under a similar agreement. The Federal Reserve Bank also serves as an important source of borrowing capacity. The Federal Reserve Bank provides credit based upon acceptable loan collateral, which includes certain loan types not eligible for pledging to the FHLB. At December 31, 2015 , based upon our available unencumbered collateral, Banner Bank was eligible to borrow $735.0 million &#32;from the Federal Reserve Bank, although at that date we had no funds borrowed under this arrangement. Although eligible to participate, Islanders Bank has not applied for approval to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank. For additional information concerning our borrowings, see Item 7 in this report, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition&#8212;Comparison of Financial Condition at December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 &#8212;Borrowings,&#8221; and Table 10 contained therein, and Notes 9 and 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

At December 31, 2015 , Banner Bank had an uncommitted federal funds line of credit agreement with another financial institution totaling $25 million, while Islanders Bank had an uncommitted federal funds line of credit agreement with another financial institution total $5 million. No balances were outstanding under these agreements as of December 31, 2015 . Availability of lines is subject to federal funds balances available for loan and continued borrower eligibility. These lines are intended to support short-term liquidity needs and the agreements may restrict consecutive day usage. 

We issue retail repurchase agreements, generally due within 90 days, as an additional source of funds, primarily in connection with cash management services provided to our larger deposit customers. At December 31, 2015 , we had issued retail repurchase agreements totaling $93.3 million . We also may borrow funds through the use of secured wholesale repurchase agreements with securities brokers; at December 31, 2015 , we had one wholesale repurchase borrowing with a carrying value of $5.0 million . The retail and wholesale repurchase borrowings were secured by pledges of certain U.S. Government and agency notes and mortgage-backed securities with a market value of $110.1 million . 

We have also issued $120.0 million &#32;of junior subordinated debentures in connection with the sale of trust preferred securities (TPS). The TPS were issued from 2002 through 2007 by special purpose business trusts formed by Banner Corporation and were sold in private offerings to pooled investment vehicles. In addition, Banner has $16.0 million &#32;of junior subordinated debentures that were acquired through the Siuslaw Bank and AmericanWest acquisitions, for a total of $136.0 million &#32;in debentures at December 31, 2015. The junior subordinated debentures associated with the TPS have been recorded as liabilities and are reported at fair value on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition. As of December 31, 2015 &#32;the fair value of the junior subordinate debentures was $92.5 million . All of the debentures issued to the trusts, measured at their fair value, less the common stock of the trusts, qualified as Tier I capital as of December 31, 2015 , under guidance issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. We invested substantially all of the proceeds from the issuance of the TPS as additional paid in capital at Banner Bank. See Note 11, Junior Subordinated Debentures and Mandatorily Redeemable Trust Preferred Securities, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Personnel 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 1,918 full-time and 225 part-time employees. Banner Corporation has no employees except for those who are also employees of Banner Bank, its subsidiaries, and Islanders Bank. The employees are not represented by a collective bargaining unit. We believe our relationship with our employees is good. 

Taxation 

Tax-Sharing Agreement 

Banner Corporation files its federal and state income tax returns on a consolidated basis under a tax-sharing agreement between the Company and each bank subsidiary. The Company prepares each subsidiary&#8217;s minimum income tax which would be required if the individual subsidiary were to file federal and state income tax returns as a separate entity. Each subsidiary pays to the Company an amount equal to the estimated income tax due if it were to file as a separate entity. The payment is made on or about the time the subsidiary would be required to make such tax payments to the United States Treasury or the applicable State Departments of Revenue. In the event the computation of the subsidiary&#8217;s federal or state income tax liability, after taking into account any estimated tax payments made, would result in a refund if the subsidiary were filing income tax returns as a separate entity, then the Company pays to the subsidiary an amount equal to the hypothetical refund. The Company is an agent for each subsidiary with respect to all matters related to the consolidated tax returns and refunds claims. If Banner's consolidated federal or state income tax liability is adjusted for any period, the liability of each party under the tax-sharing agreement is recomputed to give effect to such adjustments and any additional payments required as a result of the adjustments are made within an reasonable time after the corresponding additional tax payments are made or refunds are received. 

Federal Taxation 

General: For tax reporting purposes, we report our income on a calendar year basis using the accrual method of accounting on a consolidated basis. We are subject to federal income taxation in the same manner as other corporations with some exceptions, including particularly the reserve for bad debts. Reference is made to Note 12, Income Taxes, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning the income taxes payable by us. 

State Taxation 

Washington Taxation: &#32;&#32;We are subject to a Business and Occupation (B&#38;O) tax which is imposed under Washington law at the current rate of 1.50% of gross receipts. Interest received on loans secured by mortgages or deeds of trust on residential properties, residential mortgage-backed securities, and certain U.S. Government and agency securities is not subject to this tax. 

California, Oregon, Idaho and Utah Taxation: Corporations with nexus in the states of California, Oregon, Idaho and Utah are subject to a corporate level income tax. As our operations in these states increase, the state income tax provision will have an increasing effect on our effective tax rate and results of operations. 

Competition 

We encounter significant competition both in attracting deposits and in originating loans. Our most direct competition for deposits comes from other commercial and savings banks, savings associations and credit unions with offices in our market areas. We also experience competition from securities firms, insurance companies, money market and mutual funds, and other investment vehicles. We expect continued strong competition from such financial institutions and investment vehicles in the foreseeable future, including competition from on-line Internet banking competitors. Our ability to attract and retain deposits depends on our ability to provide transaction services and investment opportunities that satisfy the requirements of depositors. We compete for deposits by offering a variety of accounts and financial services, including robust electronic banking capabilities, with competitive rates and terms, at convenient locations and business hours, and delivered with a high level of personal service and expertise. 

Competition for loans comes principally from other commercial banks, loan brokers, mortgage banking companies, savings banks and credit unions and for agricultural loans from the Farm Credit Administration. The competition for loans is intense as a result of the large number of institutions competing in our market areas. We compete for loans primarily by offering competitive rates and fees and providing timely decisions and excellent service to borrowers. 

Regulation 

Banner Bank and Islanders Bank 

General : As state-chartered, federally insured commercial banks, Banner Bank and Islanders Bank (the Banks) are subject to extensive regulation and must comply with various statutory and regulatory requirements, including prescribed minimum capital standards. The Banks are regularly examined by the FDIC and the Washington DFI and file periodic reports concerning their activities and financial condition with these banking regulators. The Banks' relationship with depositors and borrowers also is regulated to a great extent by both federal and state law, especially in such matters as the ownership of deposit accounts and the form and content of mortgage and other loan documents. 

Federal and state banking laws and regulations govern all areas of the operation of the Banks, including reserves, loans, investments, deposits, capital, issuance of securities, payment of dividends and establishment of branches. Federal and state bank regulatory agencies also have the general authority to limit the dividends paid by insured banks and bank holding companies if such payments should be deemed to constitute an unsafe and unsound practice. The Federal Reserve Board and FDIC as the respective primary federal regulators of Banner Corporation and each of Banner Bank and Islanders Bank have authority to impose penalties, initiate civil and administrative actions and take other steps intended to prevent banks from engaging in unsafe or unsound practices. 

The laws and regulations affecting banks and bank holding companies have changed significantly, particularly in connection with the enactment of The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act). Among other changes, the Dodd-Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) as an independent bureau of the Federal Reserve Board. The CPFB assumed responsibility for the implementation of the federal financial consumer protection and fair lending laws and regulations and has authority to impose new requirements. Any change in applicable laws, regulations, or regulatory policies may have a material effect on our business, operations, and prospects. We cannot predict the nature or the extent of the effects on our business and earnings that any fiscal or monetary policies or new federal or state legislation may have in the future. For additional information concerning the Dodd-Frank Act and the CPFB, see Item 1A., &#8220;Risk Factors&#8212;We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operation&#8221; and &#8220;We may be subject to additional regulatory scrutiny if and when Banner or Banner Bank&#8217;s total assets exceed $10.0 billion.&#8221; 

The following is a summary discussion of certain laws and regulations applicable to Banner and the Banks which is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual laws and regulations. 

State Regulation and Supervision : As a Washington state-chartered commercial bank with branches in the States of Washington, Oregon, Idaho, California, and Utah, Banner Bank is subject not only to the applicable provisions of Washington law and regulations, but is also subject to Oregon, Idaho, California and Utah law and regulations. These state laws and regulations govern Banner Bank's ability to take deposits and pay interest thereon, to make loans on or invest in residential and other real estate, to make consumer loans, to invest in securities, to offer various banking services to its customers and to establish branch offices. In a similar fashion, Washington state laws and regulations for state-chartered commercial banks also apply to Islanders Bank. 

Deposit Insurance : &#32; &#32;The Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC insures deposit accounts of the Banks up to $250,000 per separately insured depositor. As insurer, the FDIC imposes deposit insurance premiums and is authorized to conduct examinations of, and to require reporting by, FDIC-insured institutions. 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC's deposit insurance assessments to be based on assets instead of deposits. The FDIC has issued rules which specify that the assessment base for a bank is equal to its total average consolidated assets less average tangible capital. The FDIC assessment rates range from approximately five basis points to 35 basis points, depending on applicable adjustments for unsecured debt issued by an institution and brokered deposits (and further adjustment for institutions that hold unsecured debt of other FDIC-insured institutions), until such time as the FDIC's reserve ratio equals 1.15%. Once the FDIC's reserve ratio reaches 1.15% and the reserve ratio for the immediately prior assessment period is less than 2.0%, the applicable assessment rates may range from three basis points to 30 basis points (subject to adjustments as described above). If the reserve ratio for the prior assessment period is equal to, or greater than 2.0% and less than 2.5%, the assessment rates may range from two basis points to 28 basis points and if the reserve ratio for the prior assessment period is greater than 2.5%, the assessment rates may range from one basis point to 25 basis points (in each case subject to adjustments as described above). No institution may pay a dividend if it is in default on its federal deposit insurance assessment. 

The FDIC conducts examinations of and requires reporting by state non-member banks, such as the Banks. The FDIC also may prohibit any insured institution from engaging in any activity determined by regulation or order to pose a serious risk to the deposit insurance fund. 

The FDIC may terminate the deposit insurance of any insured depository institution if it determines after a hearing that the institution has engaged or is engaging in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, order or any condition imposed by an agreement with the FDIC. It also may suspend deposit insurance temporarily during the hearing process for the permanent termination of insurance if the institution has no tangible capital. If insurance of accounts is terminated, the accounts at the institution at the time of the termination, less subsequent withdrawals, shall continue to be insured for a period of six months to two years, as determined by the FDIC. Management is not aware of any existing circumstances which would result in termination of the deposit insurance of either Banner Bank or Islanders Bank. 

Standards for Safety and Soundness: The federal banking regulatory agencies have prescribed, by regulation, guidelines for all insured depository institutions relating to internal controls, information systems and internal audit systems; loan documentation; credit underwriting; interest rate risk exposure; asset growth; asset quality; earnings; and compensation, fees and benefits. The guidelines set forth the safety and soundness standards that the federal banking agencies use to identify and address problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. Each insured depository institution must implement a comprehensive written information security program that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to the institution's size and complexity and the nature and scope of its activities. The information security program must be designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information, protect against any unanticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information, protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer, and ensure the proper disposal of customer and consumer information. Each insured depository institution must also develop and implement a risk-based response program to address incidents of unauthorized access to customer information in customer information systems. If the FDIC determines that an institution fails to meet any of these guidelines, it may require an institution to submit to the FDIC an acceptable plan to achieve compliance. 

Capital Requirements: &#32;Bank holding companies, such as Banner Corporation, and federally insured financial institutions, such as Banner Bank and Islanders Bank, are required to maintain a minimum level of regulatory capital. 

Effective January 1, 2015 (with some changes transitioned into full effectiveness over two to four years), Banner Corporation and the Banks became subject to new capital regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC, which create a new required ratio for common equity Tier 1 (&#8220;CET1&#8221;) capital, increase the minimum leverage and Tier 1 capital ratios, change the risk-weightings of certain assets for purposes of the risk-based capital ratios, create an additional capital conservation buffer over the required capital ratios, and change what qualifies as capital for purposes of meeting the capital requirements. These regulations implement the regulatory capital reforms required by the Dodd Frank Act and the &#8220;Basel III&#8221; requirements. 

Under the new capital regulations, the minimum capital ratios are: (1) a CET1 capital ratio of 4.5% of risk-weighted assets; (2) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0% of risk-weighted assets; (3) a total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% of risk-weighted assets; and (4) a leverage ratio (the ratio of Tier 1 capital to average total consolidated assets) of 4.0%. CET1 generally consists of common stock; retained earnings; accumulated other comprehensive income (&#8220;AOCI&#8221;) unless an institution elects to exclude AOCI from regulatory capital; and certain minority interests; all subject to applicable regulatory adjustments and deductions. Tier 1 capital generally consists of CET1 and noncumulative perpetual preferred stock. Tier 2 capital generally consists of other preferred stock and subordinated debt meeting certain conditions plus an amount of the allowance for loan and lease losses up to 1.25% of assets. Total capital is the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital. 

There are a number of changes in what constitutes regulatory capital compared to the rules in effect prior to January 1, 2015, some of which are subject to transition periods. These changes include the phasing-out of certain instruments as qualifying capital and eliminate or significantly reduce the use of hybrid capital instruments, especially trust preferred securities, as regulatory capital. Trust preferred securities issued by a company, such as the Company, with total consolidated assets of less than $15 billion before May 19, 2010 and treated as regulatory capital are grandfathered, but any such securities issued later are not eligible as regulatory capital under the new regulations. Mortgage servicing assets and deferred tax assets over designated percentages of CET1 will be deducted from capital. In addition, Tier 1 capital includes AOCI, which includes all unrealized gains and losses on available for sale debt and equity securities . However, because of our asset size, we were eligible for the one-time option of permanently opting out of the inclusion of unrealized gains and losses on available for sale debt and equity securities in our capital calculations. We elected this option in the first quarter of 2015. 

For purposes of determining risk-based capital, assets and certain off-balance sheet items are risk-weighted from 0% to 1,250%, depending on the risk characteristics of the asset or item. The new regulations make certain changes in the risk-weighting of assets to better reflect credit risk and other risk exposure compared to the earlier capital rules. These include a 150% risk weight (up from 100%) for certain high volatility commercial real estate acquisition, development and construction loans and for non-residential mortgage loans that are 90 days past due or otherwise in nonaccrual status; a 20% (up from 0%) credit conversion factor for the unused portion of a commitment with an original maturity of one year or less that is not unconditionally cancellable (up from 0%); and a 250% risk weight (up from 100%) for mortgage servicing and deferred tax assets that are not deducted from capital. 

In addition to the minimum CET1, Tier 1, leverage ratio and total capital ratios, Banner and each of the Banks must maintain a capital conservation buffer consisting of additional CET1 capital greater than 2.5% of risk-weighted assets above the required minimum levels in order to avoid limitations on paying dividends, repurchasing shares, and paying discretionary bonuses. The new capital conservation buffer requirement is to be phased in beginning on January 1, 2016 when a buffer greater than 0.625% of risk-weighted assets will be required, which amount will increase each year until the buffer requirement is fully implemented on January 1, 2019. 

&#160; 

To be considered "well capitalized," a bank holding company must have, on a consolidated basis, a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or greater and a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or greater and must not be subject to an individual order, directive or agreement under which the FRB requires it to maintain a specific capital level. To be consider &#8220;well capitalized,&#8221; a depository institution must have a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%, a CET1 capital ratio of at least 5% and a leverage ratio of at least 5% and not be subject to an individualized order, directive or agreement under which its primary federal banking regulator requires it to maintain a specific capital level. 

As of December 31, 2015, Banner Corporation and each of the Banks met the requirements to be "well capitalized" and the fully phased-in capital conservation buffer requirement. 

Prompt Corrective Action: Federal statutes establish a supervisory framework for FDIC-insured institutions based on five capital categories: well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized. An institution's category depends upon where its capital levels are in relation to relevant capital measures. The well-capitalized category is described above. An institution that is not well capitalized is subject to certain restrictions on brokered deposits, including restrictions on the rates it can offer on its deposits generally. To be considered adequately capitalized, an institution must have the minimum capital rations described above. Any institution which is neither well capitalized nor adequately capitalized is considered undercapitalized. 

Undercapitalized institutions are subject to certain prompt corrective action requirements, regulatory controls and restrictions which become more extensive as an institution becomes more severely undercapitalized. Failure by either Banner Bank and Islanders Bank to comply with applicable capital requirements would, if unremedied, result in progressively more severe restrictions on its activities and lead to enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, the issuance of a capital directive to ensure the maintenance of required capital levels and, ultimately, the appointment of the FDIC as receiver or conservator. Banking regulators will take prompt corrective action with respect to depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. Additionally, approval of any regulatory application filed for their review may be dependent on compliance with capital requirements. 

At December 31, 2015 , both Banner Bank and Islanders Bank were categorized as &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; under the prompt corrective action regulations of the FDIC. For additional information, see Note 16, Regulatory Capital Requirements, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Commercial Real Estate Lending Concentrations: &#160; The federal banking agencies have issued guidance on sound risk management practices for concentrations in commercial real estate lending. The particular focus is on exposure to commercial real estate loans that are dependent on the cash flow from the real estate held as collateral and that are likely to be sensitive to conditions in the commercial real estate market (as opposed to real estate collateral held as a secondary source of repayment or as an abundance of caution). The purpose of the guidance is not to limit a bank's commercial real estate lending but to guide banks in developing risk management practices and capital levels commensurate with the level and nature of real estate concentrations. The guidance directs the FDIC and other bank regulatory agencies to focus their supervisory resources on institutions that may have significant commercial real estate loan concentration risk. A bank that has experienced rapid growth in commercial real estate lending, has notable exposure to a specific type of commercial real estate loan, or is approaching or exceeding the following supervisory criteria may be identified for further supervisory analysis with respect to real estate concentration risk: 

&#8226; 

Total reported loans for construction, land development and other land &#32; represent 100% or more of the bank's capital; or 

&#8226; 

Total commercial real estate loans (as defined in the guidance) represent 300% or more of the bank's total regulatory capital or the outstanding balance of the bank's commercial real estate loan portfolio has increased 50% or more during the prior 36 months. 

The guidance provides that the strength of an institution's lending and risk management practices with respect to such concentrations will be taken into account in supervisory guidance on evaluation of capital adequacy. As of December 31, 2015 , Banner Bank's and Islanders Bank's aggregate recorded loan balances for construction, land development and land loans were 58% and 27% of total regulatory capital, respectively. In addition, at December 31, 2015 , Banner Bank's and Islanders Bank's loans on commercial real estate were 292% and 215% of total regulatory capital, respectively. 

Activities and Investments of Insured State-Chartered Financial Institutions: Federal law generally limits the activities and equity investments of FDIC insured, state-chartered banks to those that are permissible for national banks. An insured state bank is not prohibited from, among other things, (1) acquiring or retaining a majority interest in a subsidiary, (2) investing as a limited partner in a partnership the sole purpose of which is direct or indirect investment in the acquisition, rehabilitation or new construction of a qualified housing project, provided that such limited partnership investments may not exceed 2% of the bank's total assets, (3) acquiring up to 10% of the voting stock of a company that solely provides or re-insures directors', trustees' and officers' liability insurance coverage or bankers' blanket bond group insurance coverage for insured depository institutions, and (4) acquiring or retaining the voting shares of a depository institution if certain requirements are met. 

Washington State has enacted a law regarding financial institution parity. Primarily, the law affords Washington-chartered commercial banks the same powers as Washington-chartered savings banks. In order for a bank to exercise these powers, it must provide 30 days notice to the Director of the Washington Department of Financial Institutions and the Director must authorize the requested activity. In addition, the law provides that Washington-chartered commercial banks may exercise any of the powers that the Federal Reserve has determined to be closely related to the business of banking and the powers of national banks, subject to the approval of the Director in certain situations. Finally, the law provides additional flexibility for Washington-chartered banks with respect to interest rates on loans and other extensions of credit. Specifically, they may charge the maximum interest rate allowable for loans and other extensions of credit by federally-chartered financial institutions to Washington residents. 

Environmental Issues Associated With Real Estate Lending: &#32;The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) is a federal statute that generally imposes strict liability on all prior and present &#8220;owners and operators&#8221; of sites containing hazardous waste. However, Congress acted to protect secured creditors by providing that the term &#8220;owner and operator&#8221; excludes a person whose ownership is limited to protecting its security interest in the site. Since the enactment of the CERCLA, this &#8220;secured creditor exemption&#8221; has been the subject of judicial interpretations which have left open the possibility that lenders could be liable for cleanup costs on contaminated property that they hold as collateral for a loan. To the extent that legal uncertainty exists in this area, all creditors, including Banner Bank and Islanders Bank, that have made loans secured by properties with potential hazardous waste contamination (such as petroleum contamination) could be subject to liability for cleanup costs, which costs often substantially exceed the value of the collateral property. 

Federal Reserve System: The Federal Reserve Board requires that all depository institutions maintain reserves on transaction accounts or non-personal time deposits. These reserves may be in the form of cash or non-interest-bearing deposits with the regional Federal Reserve Bank. Interest-bearing checking accounts and other types of accounts that permit payments or transfers to third parties fall within the definition of transaction accounts and are subject to Regulation D reserve requirements, as are any non-personal time deposits at a bank . At December 31, 2015 , the Banks' deposits with the Federal Reserve Bank and vault cash exceeded their reserve requirements. 

Affiliate Transactions: Banner Corporation, Banner Bank and Islanders Bank are separate and distinct legal entities. Each Bank is an affiliate of the other and Banner Corporation (and any non-bank subsidiary of Banner Corporation) is an affiliate of both Banks. Federal laws strictly limit the ability of banks to engage in certain transactions with their affiliates. Transactions deemed to be a &#8220;covered transaction&#8221; under Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act and between a bank and an affiliate are limited to 10% of the bank's capital and surplus and, with respect to all affiliates, to an aggregate of 20% of the bank's capital and surplus. Further, covered transactions that are loans and extensions of credit generally are required to be secured by eligible collateral in specified amounts. Federal law also requires that covered transactions and certain other transactions listed in Section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act between a bank and its affiliates be on terms as favorable to the bank as transactions with non-affiliates. 

Community Reinvestment Act: Banner Bank and Islanders Bank are subject to the provisions of the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (CRA), which requires the appropriate federal bank regulatory agency to assess a bank's performance under the CRA in meeting the credit needs of the community serviced by the bank, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. The regulatory agency's assessment of the bank's record is made available to the public. Further, a bank's CRA performance rating must be considered in connection with a bank's application to, among other things, to establish a new branch office that will accept deposits, relocate an existing office or merge or consolidate with, or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of, a federally regulated financial institution. Both Banner Bank and Islanders Bank received a &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; rating during their most recently completed CRA examinations. 

Dividends: The amount of dividends payable by the Banks to the Company depend upon their earnings and capital position, and is limited by federal and state laws, regulations and policies. Federal law further provides that no insured depository institution may make any capital distribution (which includes a cash dividend) if, after making the distribution, the institution would be &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; as defined in the prompt corrective action regulations. Moreover, the federal bank regulatory agencies also have the general authority to limit the dividends paid by insured banks if such payments should be deemed to constitute an unsafe and unsound practice. Dividends from Banner Bank to the Company 

require FDIC and DFI approval because Banner Bank remains in a cumulative negative retained earnings position primarily as a result of goodwill impairment recorded in 2010 and more recently the special dividend paid to the Company to fund the acquisition of Starbuck. 

Privacy Standards: The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999 (GLBA) modernized the financial services industry by establishing a comprehensive framework to permit affiliations among commercial banks, insurance companies, securities firms and other financial service providers. Banner Bank and Islanders Bank are subject to FDIC regulations implementing the privacy protection provisions of the GLBA. These regulations require the Banks to disclose their privacy policy, including informing consumers of their information sharing practices and informing consumers of their rights to opt out of certain practices. 

Anti-Money Laundering and Customer Identification: &#32; The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (USA Patriot Act) was signed into law on October 26, 2001. The USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury&#8217;s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Bank regulators are directed to consider a holding company's effectiveness in combating money laundering when ruling on Bank Holding Company Act and Bank Merger Act applications. Banner Bank's and Islanders Bank's policies and procedures comply with the requirements of the USA Patriot Act. 

Other Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations: The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB and empowered it to exercise broad regulatory, supervisory and enforcement authority with respect to both new and existing consumer financial protection laws. The Banks are subject to consumer protection regulations issued by the CPFB, but as financial institutions with assets of less than $10 billion, the Banks are generally subject to supervision and enforcement by the FDIC and the Washington DFI with respect to our compliance with consumer financial protection laws and CPFB regulations. 

The Banks are subject to a broad array of federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations that govern almost every aspect of their business relationships with consumers. While the list set forth below is not exhaustive, these include the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Fund Transfers Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Right to Financial Privacy Act, the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act, the Fair Credit Billing Act, the Homeowners Protection Act, the Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act, laws governing flood insurance, laws governing consumer protections in connection with the sale of insurance, federal and state laws prohibiting unfair and deceptive business practices, and various regulations that implement some or all of the foregoing. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with customers when taking deposits, making loans, collecting loans, and providing other services. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can subject the Banks to various penalties, including but not limited to, enforcement actions, injunctions, fines, civil liability, criminal penalties, punitive damages, and the loss of certain contractual rights. 

Banner Corporation 

General: Banner Corporation, as sole shareholder of Banner Bank and Islanders Bank, is a bank holding company registered with the Federal Reserve. Bank holding companies are subject to comprehensive regulation by the Federal Reserve under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, or the BHCA, and the regulations of the Federal Reserve. We are required to file quarterly reports with the Federal Reserve and provide additional information as the Federal Reserve may require. The Federal Reserve may examine us, and any of our subsidiaries, and charge us for the cost of the examination. The Federal Reserve also has extensive enforcement authority over bank holding companies, including, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, to issue cease and desist or removal orders and to require that a holding company divest subsidiaries (including its bank subsidiaries). In general, enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of law and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. Banner Corporation is also required to file certain reports with, and otherwise comply with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

The Bank Holding Company Act: Under the BHCA, we are supervised by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve has a policy that a bank holding company is required to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary banks and may not conduct its operations in an unsafe or unsound manner. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act and earlier Federal Reserve policy provide that a bank holding company should serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary banks by having the ability to provide financial assistance to its subsidiary banks during periods of financial distress to the banks. A bank holding company's failure to meet its obligation to serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary banks will generally be considered by the Federal Reserve to be an unsafe and unsound banking practice or a violation of the Federal Reserve's regulations or both. No regulations have yet been proposed by the Federal Reserve to implement the source of strength doctrine required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Banner Corporation and any subsidiaries that it may control are considered &#8220;affiliates&#8221; within the meaning of the Federal Reserve Act, and transactions between Banner Bank and affiliates are subject to numerous restrictions. With some exceptions, Banner Corporation and its subsidiaries are prohibited from tying the provision of various services, such as extensions of credit, to other services offered by Banner Corporation or by its affiliates. 

Acquisitions: The BHCA prohibits a bank holding company, with certain exceptions, from acquiring ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any company that is not a bank or bank holding company and from engaging in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks, or providing services for its subsidiaries. Under the BHCA, the Federal Reserve may approve the ownership of shares by a bank holding company in any company, the activities of which the Federal Reserve has determined to be so closely related to the 

business of banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. These activities include: operating a savings institution, mortgage company, finance company, credit card company or factoring company; performing certain data processing operations; providing certain investment and financial advice; underwriting and acting as an insurance agent for certain types of credit-related insurance; leasing property on a full-payout, non-operating basis; selling money orders, travelers' checks and U.S. Savings Bonds; real estate and personal property appraising; providing tax planning and preparation services; and, subject to certain limitations, providing securities brokerage services for customers. 

Federal Securities Laws: &#160; &#160; Banner &#160; Corporation's common stock is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We are subject to information, proxy solicitation, insider trading restrictions and other requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act). 

The Dodd-Frank Act: &#32;&#32;On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank-Act imposes new restrictions and an expanded framework of regulatory oversight for financial institutions, including depository institutions and implements new capital regulations for Banner Corporation and the Banks are subject to and that are discussed above under the section entitled "Capital Requirements." 

In addition, among other changes, the Dodd-Frank Act requires public companies, like Banner Corporation, to (i) provide their shareholders with a non-binding vote (a) at least once every three years on the compensation paid to executive officers and (b) at least once every six years on whether they should have a &#8220;say on pay&#8221; vote every one, two or three years; (ii) have a separate, non-binding shareholder vote regarding golden parachutes for named executive officers when a shareholder vote takes place on mergers, acquisitions, dispositions or other transactions that would trigger the parachute payments; (iii) provide disclosure in annual proxy materials concerning the relationship between the executive compensation paid and the financial performance of the issuer; and (iv) amend Item 402 of Regulation S-K to require companies to disclose the ratio of the Chief Executive Officer's annual total compensation to the median annual total compensation of all other employees. For certain of these changes, the implementing regulations have not been promulgated, so the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on public companies cannot be determined at this time. 

The federal banking agencies have issued final rules to implement the provisions of Section 619 of the Dodd Frank Act commonly referred to as the Volcker Rule. The regulations contain prohibitions and restrictions on the ability of financial institutions holding companies and their affiliates to engage in proprietary trading and to hold certain interests in, or to have certain relationships with, various types of investment funds, including hedge funds and private equity funds. The regulations became effective on April 1, 2014 with full compliance required by July 21, 2015. Banner Corporation is continuously reviewing its investment portfolio to determine if changes in its investment strategies are in compliance with the various provisions of the Volcker Rule regulations. 

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002: As a public company that files periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Banner Corporation is subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley Act), which addresses, among other issues, corporate governance, auditing and accounting, executive compensation and enhanced and timely disclosure of corporate information. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act represents significant federal involvement in matters traditionally left to state regulatory systems, such as the regulation of the accounting profession, and to state corporate law, such as the relationship between a board of directors and management and between a board of directors and its committees. Our policies and procedures have been updated to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 

Interstate Banking and Branching: The Federal Reserve must approve an application of a bank holding company to acquire control of, or acquire all or substantially all of the assets of, a bank located in a state other than the holding company's home state, without regard to whether the transaction is prohibited by the laws of any state. The Federal Reserve may not approve the acquisition of a bank that has not been in existence for the minimum time period (not exceeding five years) specified by the statutory law of the host state. Nor may the Federal Reserve approve an application if the applicant (and its depository institution affiliates) controls or would control more than 10% of the insured deposits in the United States or 30% or more of the deposits in the target bank's home state or in any state in which the target bank maintains a branch. Federal law does not affect the authority of states to limit the percentage of total insured deposits in the state which may be held or controlled by a bank holding company to the extent such limitation does not discriminate against out-of-state banks or bank holding companies. Individual states may also waive the 30% state-wide concentration limit contained in the federal law. 

The federal banking agencies are authorized to approve interstate merger transactions without regard to whether the transaction is prohibited by the law of any state, unless the home state of one of the banks adopted a law prior to June 1, 1997 which applies equally to all out-of-state banks and expressly prohibits merger transactions involving out-of-state banks. Interstate acquisitions of branches will be permitted only if the law of the state in which the branch is located permits such acquisitions. Interstate mergers and branch acquisitions will also be subject to the nationwide and statewide insured deposit concentration amounts described above. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal banking agencies may generally approve interstate de novo branching. 

Dividends: The Federal Reserve has issued a policy statement on the payment of cash dividends by bank holding companies, which expresses its view that although there are no specific regulations restricting dividend payments by bank holding companies other than state corporate laws, a bank holding company must maintain an adequate capital position and generally should not pay cash dividends unless the company's net income for the past year is sufficient to fully fund the cash dividends and that the prospective rate of earnings appears consistent with the company's capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. The Federal Reserve policy statement also indicates that it would be inappropriate for a company experiencing serious financial problems to borrow funds to pay dividends. As described above under &#8220;Capital 

Requirements,&#8221; beginning January 1, 2016 the capital conversion buffer requirement can also restrict Banner Corporation&#8217;s and the Banks&#8217; ability to pay dividends. 

Stock Repurchases: A bank holding company, except for certain &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; and highly rated bank holding companies, is required to give the Federal Reserve prior written notice of any purchase or redemption of its outstanding equity securities if the gross consideration for the purchase or redemption, when combined with the net consideration paid for all such purchases or redemptions during the preceding twelve months, is equal to 10% or more of its consolidated net worth. The Federal Reserve may disapprove such a purchase or redemption if it determines that the proposal would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice or would violate any law, regulation, Federal Reserve order or any condition imposed by, or written agreement with, the Federal Reserve. &#32;&#32; During the year ended December 31, 2015 , Banner Corporation had no repurchases of its common stock. 

&#32;Management Personnel 

Executive Officers 

The following table sets forth information with respect to the executive officers of Banner Corporation and Banner Bank as of December 31, 2015 : 

Name 

&#160; 

Age 

&#160; 

Position with Banner Corporation 

&#160; 

Position with Banner Bank 

Mark J. Grescovich 

&#160; 

&#160; 

President, Chief Executive Officer, 

Director 

&#160; 

President, Chief Executive Officer, Director 

Lloyd W. Baker 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, 

Chief Financial Officer 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President 

Richard B. Barton 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, 

Chief Lending Officer 

Douglas M. Bennett 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, 

Real Estate Lending Operations 

Tyrone J. Bliss 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, 

Risk Management and Compliance Officer 

James R. Claffee 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, 

Chief Integration Officer 

Peter J. Conner 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, 

Chief Financial Officer 

Kenneth A. Larsen 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, 

Mortgage Banking 

Cynthia D. Purcell 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, 

Retail Banking and Administration 

M. Kirk Quillin 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, 

East Region, Commercial Banking 

James T. Reed, Jr. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, 

West Region, Commercial Banking 

Steven W. Rust 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, 

Chief Information Officer 

Gary W. Wagers 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, 

Retail Products and Services 

Keith A. Western 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, 

California &#38; S. Oregon Commercial Banking 

Biographical Information 

Set forth below is certain information regarding the executive officers of Banner Corporation and Banner Bank. There are no family relationships among or between the directors or executive officers. 

Mark J. &#32; Grescovich &#32;is President and Chief Executive Officer, and a director, of Banner Corporation and Banner Bank. Mr. Grescovich joined Banner Bank in April 2010 and became Chief Executive Officer in August 2010 following an extensive banking career specializing in finance, credit administration and risk management. Prior to joining Banner Bank, Mr. Grescovich was the Executive Vice President and Chief Corporate Banking Officer for Akron, Ohio-based FirstMerit Corporation and FirstMerit Bank N.A., a commercial bank with $14.5 billion in assets and over 200 branch offices in three states. He assumed the role and responsibility for FirstMerit&#8217;s commercial and regional line of business in 2007, having served since 1994 in various commercial and corporate banking positions, including that of Chief Credit Officer. Prior to joining FirstMerit, Mr. Grescovich was a Managing Partner in corporate finance with Sequoia Financial Group, Inc. of Akron, Ohio and a commercial and corporate lending officer and credit analyst with Society National Bank of Cleveland, Ohio. 

&#160; 

Lloyd W. Baker &#32;joined First Savings Bank of Washington (now Banner Bank) in 1995 as Asset/Liability Manager, has been a member of the executive management committee since 1998 and has served as the Chief Financial Officer of Banner Corporation since 2000 and of Banner Bank from 2000 to October 2015. His banking career began in 1973. 

Richard B. Barton &#32;joined Banner Bank in 2002 as Chief Credit Officer. Mr. Barton&#8217;s banking career began in 1972 with Seafirst Bank and Bank of America, where he served in a variety of commercial lending and credit risk management positions. In his last positions at Bank of America before joining Banner Bank, he served as the senior real estate risk management executive for the Pacific Northwest and as the credit risk management executive for the west coast home builder division. Mr. Barton was named Chief Lending Officer in 2008 and continues in his role as Chief Credit Officer. 

Douglas M. Bennett , who joined First Federal Savings and Loan (now Banner Bank) in 1974, has over 39 years of experience in real estate lending. He has served as a member of Banner Bank&#8217;s executive management committee since 2004. 

Tyrone J. Bliss &#32;joined Banner Bank in 2002 and has served in his current position since 2006. Mr. Bliss is a Certified Regulatory Compliance Manager with more than 36 years of commercial banking experience. Prior to joining Banner Bank, his career included senior risk management and compliance positions with Bank of America&#8217;s Consumer Finance Group, Barnett Banks, Inc., and Florida-based community banks. 

James R. Claffee &#32;joined Banner Bank in 2015 upon the acquisition of AmericanWest. Mr. Claffee has more than 40 years of experience in banking and has served in senior executive positions with banks located in Washington, Arizona, California and New England. Mr. Claffee was President and Chief Operating Officer of AmericanWest and Starbuck, responsible for strategic growth in the region and for the integration of nine acquisitions over the previous four years. Mr. Claffee is a graduate of Tufts University. He holds an M.B.A. from San Diego State University. He also completed the Liberal Arts Program for Senior Managers at Stanford, The J.L. Kellogg School of International Management, and attended the Stonier Graduate School of Banking. He has been active in charitable and philanthropic organizations throughout his career. Mr. Claffee is a Vietnam veteran and served as an officer in the U.S. Navy. 

Peter J. Conner &#32;joined Banner Bank in 2015 upon the acquisition of AmericanWest. Prior to joining Banner, Mr. Conner was the Chief Financial Officer for SKBHC LLC, the holding company for Starbuck, (SKBHC) and AmericanWest from 2010 until he joined Banner Bank in 2015. Mr. Conner has 25 years of experience in executive finance positions at Wells Fargo Bank as well as regional community banks. Additionally, he spent time as a managing director for FSI Group, where he evaluated and placed equity fund investments in community banks. He earned a B.S. in Quantitative Economics from the University of California at San Diego and a Masters of Business from the Haas School of Business at U.C. Berkeley. 

Kenneth A. Larsen &#32;joined Banner Bank in 2005 as the Real Estate Administration Manager and was promoted to Mortgage Banking Director in 2010. Mr. Larsen is responsible for Banner Bank&#8217;s mortgage banking activities from origination, administration, secondary marketing, through loan servicing. Mr. Larsen has had a 24-year career in mortgage banking, including holding positions in all facets of operations and management. A graduate of Eastern Washington University, he earned a Bachelor of Arts in Education with a degree in Social Science and earned certificates from the Pacific Coast Banking School and the School of Mortgage Banking. He is also a Certified Mortgage Banker, the highest designation recognized by the Mortgage Bankers Association. Mr. Larsen began his career at Action Mortgage/Sterling Savings, later moving to Peoples Bank of Lynden where he managed the mortgage banking operation. Mr. Larsen also served as the 90th President of the Seattle Mortgage Bankers Association. Currently he is the Chairman of the Washington Mortgage Bankers Association and a recent appointee by the Governor of Washington State to serve as a commissioner on the Washington State Housing Finance Commission. He was promoted to Executive Vice President in 2015. 

Cynthia D. Purcell was formerly the Chief Financial Officer of Inland Empire Bank (now Banner Bank), which she joined in 1981. She has served as Executive Vice President since 2000. Ms. Purcell is responsible for managing Retail Banking including Mortgage Banking, Small Business Banking and Digital Delivery Channels, as well as administrative support functions for the organization. 

M. Kirk Quillin &#32;joined Banner Bank&#8217;s commercial banking group in 2002 as a Senior Vice President and commercial loan manager and was named to his current position as the East Region Commercial Banking Executive in July 2012. He is responsible for commercial and specialty banking for all locations in Eastern Washington, Eastern Oregon and Idaho. Mr. Quillin began his career in the banking industry in 1984 with Idaho First National Bank, which is now U.S. Bank. His career also included management positions in commercial lending with Washington Mutual. He earned a B.S. in Finance and Economics from Boise State University and was certified by the Pacific Coast Banking School and Northwest Intermediate Commercial Lending School. 

James T. Reed, Jr. &#32;joined Towne Bank (now Banner Bank) as a Vice President and Commercial Branch Manager in July 1995 and was named to his current position as the West Region Commercial Banking Executive in July 2012. He is responsible for Commercial Banking in Western Washington and Western Oregon, Treasury Management, as well as Specialty Banking. Mr. Reed began his banking career with Rainier Bank, which later became Security Pacific Bank and later still West One Bank. He earned a Bachelor of Arts in Interdisciplinary Arts and Sciences from the University of Washington and earned certificates from Pacific Coast Banking School, Northwest Intermediate Banking School and Northwest Intermediate Commercial Lending School. Currently, Mr. Reed is a member of the University of Washington Bothell Advisory Board and the Association of Washington Business Board of Directors 

Steven W. Rust &#32;joined Banner Bank in October 2005 as Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer and was named to his current position as Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer in September 2007. Mr. Rust has over 37 years of relevant industry experience prior to joining Banner Bank and was founder and President of InfoSoft Technology, through which he worked for nine years as a technology consultant and interim Chief Information Officer for banks and insurance companies. He also worked 19 years with US Bank/West One Bancorp as Senior Vice President &#38; Manager of Information Systems. 

Gary W. Wagers &#32;joined Banner Bank as Senior Vice President, Consumer Lending Administration in 2002 and was named to his current position in Retail Products and Services in January 2008. Mr. Wagers began his banking career in 1982 at Idaho First National Bank. Prior to joining Banner Bank, his career included senior management positions in retail lending and branch banking operations with West One Bank and US Bank. 

Keith A. Western &#32;is Executive Vice President, Commercial Banking for Banner Bank, joining Banner upon the merger of AmericanWest and Banner Bank. Prior to the merger, Mr. Western was President of Northwest Banking for AmericanWest since 2011. Mr. Western has 38 years of banking experience across multiple markets including the western, eastern and mid-western United States and Canada. The bulk of Mr. Western&#8217;s career was with Bank of America (approximately 15 years) and Citibank (approximately 12 years) in a variety of assignments including asset based lending, commercial and business banking, and credit risk management. 

Corporate Information 

Our principal executive offices are located at 10 South First Avenue, Walla Walla, Washington 99362. Our telephone number is (509) 527-3636. We maintain a website with the address www.bannerbank.com. The information contained on our website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other than an investor&#8217;s own Internet access charges, we make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

