 ITEM 1. Business. 

Overview 

We are the global leader in sequencing- and array-based solutions for genetic analysis. Our products and services serve customers in a wide range of markets, enabling the adoption of genomic solutions in research and clinical settings. We were incorporated in California in April 1998 and reincorporated in Delaware in July 2000. Our principal executive offices are located at 5200 Illumina Way, San Diego, California 92122. Our telephone number is (858) 202-4500. 

Our customers include leading genomic research centers, academic institutions, government laboratories, and hospitals, as well as pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrigenomics, commercial molecular diagnostic laboratories, and consumer genomics companies. 

Our portfolio of integrated systems, consumables, and analysis tools is designed to accelerate and simplify genetic analysis. This portfolio addresses the range of genomic complexity, price points, and throughput, enabling customers to select the best solution for their research or clinical challenge. 

Over the past five years, we have made key acquisitions to provide our customers with more comprehensive sample-to-answer solutions and to enable our goal of becoming a leader in the clinical market. These include: 

&#8226; 

GenoLogics Life Sciences Software Inc., a developer of industry-leading laboratory information management systems, in August 2015; 

&#8226; 

Myraqa, Inc., a regulatory and quality consulting firm specializing in IVDs and companion diagnostics, in July 2014; 

&#8226; 

NextBio, a provider of clinical and genomic informatics, in November 2013; 

&#8226; 

Advanced Liquid Logic Inc., a developer of digital microfluidics and liquid handling solutions, in July 2013; 

&#8226; 

Verinata Health, Inc., a provider of non-invasive tests for the early identification of fetal chromosomal abnormalities, in February 2013; 

&#8226; 

BlueGnome Ltd., a provider of cytogenetics and in vitro fertilization screening solutions, in September 2012; and 

&#8226; 

Epicentre Technologies Corporation, a provider of nucleic-acid sample preparation reagents and specialty enzymes for sequencing and array applications, in January 2011. 

&#32;4 

Genetics Primer 

The instruction set for all living cells is encoded in deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA. The complete set of DNA for any organism is referred to as its genome. DNA contains small regions called genes, which comprise a string of nucleotide bases labeled A, C, G, and T, representing adenine, cytosine, guanine, and thymine, respectively. These nucleotide bases occur in a precise order known as the DNA sequence. When a gene is &#8220;expressed,&#8221; a partial copy of its DNA sequence called messenger RNA (mRNA) is used as a template to direct the synthesis of a particular protein. Proteins, in turn, direct all cellular function. The illustration below is a simplified gene expression schematic. 

Variations among organisms are due, in large part, to differences in their DNA sequences. Changes can result from insertions, deletions, inversions, translocations, or duplications of nucleotide bases. These changes may result in certain genes becoming over-expressed (excessive protein production), under-expressed (reduced protein production), or silenced altogether, sometimes triggering changes in cellular function. These changes can be the result of heredity, but most often they occur at random. The most common form of variation in humans is called a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), which is a base change in a single position in a DNA sequence. Another type of variation, copy number variations (CNVs), occur when there are fewer or more copies of certain genes, segments of a gene, or stretches of DNA. 

In humans, genetic variation accounts for many of the physical differences we see (e.g., height, hair, eye color, etc.). Genetic variations also can have medical consequences affecting disease susceptibility, including predisposition to complex genetic diseases such as cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and Alzheimer&#8217;s disease. They can affect individual response to certain drug treatments, causing patients to experience adverse side effects, or to respond well or not at all. 

Scientists are studying these variations and their consequences in humans, as well as in a broad range of animals, plants, and microorganisms. Such research takes place in government, university, pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and agrigenomics laboratories around the world, where scientists expand our knowledge of the biological functions essential for life. Beginning at the genetic level, Illumina tools are used to elucidate the correlation between gene sequence and biological processes. Life-science research includes the study of the cells, tissues, organs, systems, and other components of living organisms. This research supports the development of new treatments to improve human health. Examples include more tailored clinical treatments, often referred to as precision medicine, as well as advances in agriculture and animal husbandry to meet growing needs for food and energy. Researchers who investigate human, viral, and bacterial genetic variation to understand the mechanisms of disease are enabling the development of more effective diagnostics and therapeutics. They also provide greater insight into genetic variation in plants (e.g., food and biofuel crops) and animals (e.g., livestock and domestic), enabling improvements in crop yields and animal breeding programs. 

By empowering genetic analysis and facilitating a deeper understanding of genetic variation and function, our tools advance disease research, drug development, and the creation of molecular diagnostic tests. We believe that this will trigger a fundamental shift in the practice of medicine and health care and that the increased emphasis on preventive and predictive molecular medicine will usher in the era of precision health care. 

Our Principal Markets 

Our organization is structured to target the markets and customers outlined below. 

&#32;5 

Life Sciences 

Historically, our core business has been in the life sciences research market. This includes laboratories associated with universities, research centers, and government institutions, along with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. Researchers at these institutions use our products and services for basic and translational research across a spectrum of scientific applications, including targeted, exome, and whole-genome sequencing; genetic variation; gene expression; epigenetics; and metagenomics. Increasingly, these techniques are migrating to next-generation sequencing (NGS) due to the declining costs of NGS technologies and the ability of NGS to provide vast amounts of data, resulting in improved discovery performance as compared to arrays. Both private and public funding drive this research, along with global initiatives to characterize genetic variation. 

We also serve applied markets in life sciences, such as agrigenomics, forensic genomics, and transplant biology. In agrigenomics, government and corporate researchers use our sequencing- and array-based tools to explore the genetic and biological basis for productivity and nutritional constitution in crops and livestock. Researchers can identify natural and novel genomic variation and deploy genome-wide marker-based applications to accelerate breeding and production of healthier and higher-yielding crops and livestock. In forensic genomics, major law enforcement agencies use sequencing to investigate criminal cases, as do military and security intelligence agencies. In transplant diagnostics, we offer a sample-to-answer solution to perform high resolution HLA typing in a single assay, which enables users to determine how closely the tissues of one person match the tissues of another person. 

Clinical Genomics 

We provide sample-to-answer solutions to our customers in two key areas of translational and clinical genomics: reproductive and genetic health, and oncology. 

Illumina provides reproductive-health solutions, including preimplantation genetic screening and diagnosis (PGS and PGD), noninvasive prenatal testing (NIPT), and neonatal and genetic health testing. Our PGS solution is used with in vitro fertilization (IVF) to determine, before implantation, whether an embryo has an abnormal number of chromosomes, which is a major cause of IVF failure and miscarriages. In the case of PGD, the technology determines which embryos are free from gene variants associated with genetic diseases. Our technology enables NIPT for early identification of fetal chromosomal abnormalities by analyzing cell-free DNA in maternal blood. 

Cancer is a disease of the genome, and the goal of cancer genomics is to identify genomic changes that transform a normal cell into a cancerous one. Understanding these genomic changes improves diagnostic accuracy, increases understanding of the prognosis, and enables oncologists to target therapies to individuals. Customers in the translational and clinical oncology markets use Illumina sequencing- and array-based solutions to perform research that may help identify individuals who are genetically predisposed to cancer. Customers also utilize our technology to identify the molecular changes in a tumor so that physicians can tailor treatment based on the genetic variation. We believe that circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) will become an important clinical tool for managing oncology patients during all stages of tumor progression. Our technology is being used to research the implications of ctDNA in treatment determination, treatment monitoring, minimal residual disease, and asymptomatic screening. In early 2016, we formed a new company, GRAIL, Inc., which is majority owned by Illumina and funded by Illumina and outside investors, to develop a pan-cancer screening test enabled by our sequencing technology. 

To advance genomic-based precision oncology care, we are working with key opinion leaders to set standards for NGS-based assays in routine clinical oncology practice and to define regulatory frameworks for this new testing paradigm. 

Enterprise Informatics 

Enterprise informatics solutions increase the utility of genomic data by allowing customers to aggregate, analyze, archive, and share genomic data. Integrating our instruments with data-analysis software allows customers to go from their biological sample, through the raw genomic data, to meaningful results. Our BaseSpace platform, which can be hosted onsite or in the cloud, integrates directly with our sequencing instruments. It facilitates data sharing, provides data-storage solutions, and streamlines analysis through a growing number of applications from Illumina and the bioinformatics community. 

In 2013, we acquired NextBio, a platform for aggregating and analyzing large quantities of genomic and phenotypic data. Translational researchers use this tool to understand the efficacy of drug therapies and identify trends in patient outcomes. We believe that large-scale genomic databases containing genomic and phenotypic information will enhance the value of human genome sequencing and accelerate the pace of discovery. 

&#32;6 

Our Principal Products and Technologies 

Our unique technology platforms support the scale of experimentation necessary for population-scale studies, genome-wide discovery, target selection, and validation studies (see Figure 1 below). Customers use our products to analyze the genome at all levels of complexity, from whole-genome sequencing to targeted panels. A large and dynamic Illumina user community has published approximately 32,000 customer-authored scientific papers using our technologies. Through rapid innovation, we are changing the economics of genetic research, enabling projects that were previously considered impossible, and supporting clinical advances towards precision medicine. 

Most of our product sales consist of instruments and consumables (which include reagents, flow cells, and microarrays) based on our proprietary technologies. For the fiscal years ended January 3, 2016 , December 28, 2014 , and December 29, 2013 , instrument sales comprised 27% , 30% , and 26% , respectively, of total revenues, and consumable sales represented 58% , 56% , and 62% , respectively, of total revenues. 

&#160; 

Figure 1: Illumina Platform Overview: &#32; 

Sequencing 

DNA sequencing is the process of determining the order of nucleotide bases (A, C, G, or T) in a DNA sample. Our portfolio of sequencing platforms represents a family of systems that we believe set the standard for productivity, cost-effectiveness, and accuracy among NGS technologies. Customers use our platforms to perform whole-genome, de novo, and exome sequencing, and targeted resequencing of specific gene regions and genes. 

Whole-genome sequencing determines the complete DNA sequence of an organism. In de novo sequencing, the goal is to sequence and analyze a sample without using information from prior sequencing of that species. In targeted resequencing, a portion of the sequence of an organism is compared to a standard or reference sequence from previously sequenced samples to identify genetic variation. Understanding the similarities and differences in DNA sequence between and within species helps us understand the function of the structures encoded in the DNA. 

Our DNA sequencing technology is based on our proprietary reversible terminator-based sequencing chemistry, referred to as sequencing by synthesis (SBS) biochemistry. SBS tracks the addition of labeled nucleotides as the DNA chain is copied in a massively parallel fashion. Our SBS sequencing technology provides researchers with a broad range of applications and the ability to sequence even large mammalian genomes in a day rather than weeks or years. 

Our sequencing platforms can generate between 500 megabases (Mb) and 1.8 terabases (Tb) (equivalent to 16 human genomes) of genomic data in a single run, depending on the instrument and application. There are different price points per gigabase (Gb) for each instrument, and for different applications, which range from small-genome, amplicon, and targeted gene-panel sequencing to population-scale whole human genome sequencing. Since we launched our first sequencing system 

&#32;7 

in 2007, our systems have reduced the cost of sequencing by more than a factor of 10,000. In addition, the sequencing time per Gb has dropped by a factor of nearly 2,000. 

For the fiscal years ended January 3, 2016, December 28, 2014, and December 29, 2013, sequencing revenue comprised 86% , &#32; 81% , and &#32; 73% , respectively, of total revenues. 

Arrays 

Arrays are used for a broad range of DNA and RNA analysis applications, including SNP genotyping, CNV analysis, gene expression analysis, and methylation analysis, and allow for the detection of millions of known genetic markers on a single array. 

Our BeadArray technology combines microscopic beads and a substrate in a proprietary manufacturing process to produce arrays that can perform many assays simultaneously. This facilitates large-scale analysis of genetic variation and biological function in a uniquely high-throughput, cost-effective, and flexible manner. Using our BeadArray technology, we achieve high-throughput analysis via a high density of test sites per array and the ability to format arrays in various configurations. Varying the size, shape, and format of the substrate into which the beads self-assemble and creating specific bead types for different applications lets us address multiple markets and market segments. Both our iScan array scanner system and our NextSeq 550 system can be used to image the arrays. 

For the fiscal years ended January 3, 2016, December 28, 2014, and December 29, 2013, array revenue comprised 14% , 19% , and 27% , respectively, of total revenues. 

Consumables 

We have developed various library preparation and sequencing kits to simplify workflows and accelerate analysis. Our sequencing applications include whole-genome sequencing kits, which sequence entire genomes of any size and complexity, and targeted resequencing kits, which can sequence exomes, specific genes, or other genomic regions of interest. Our sequencing kits maximize the ability of our customers to characterize the target genome accurately. 

Customers use Illumina array-based genotyping consumables for a wide range of analyses, including diverse species, disease-related mutations, and genetic characteristics associated with cancer. Customers can select from a range of human, animal, and agriculturally relevant genome panels or create their own custom arrays to investigate millions of genetic markers targeting any species. 

Our Services 

In addition to selling products, we provide whole-genome sequencing, genotyping, and NIPT services. Human whole-genome sequencing services are provided through our CLIA-certified, CAP-accredited laboratory. Using our services, customers can perform whole-genome sequencing projects (including phasing and long-read sequencing services) and microarray projects (including large-scale genotyping studies and whole-genome association studies). We also provide NIPT services through our partner laboratories that direct samples to us on a test send-out basis in our CLIA-certified, CAP-accredited laboratory. 

Intellectual Property 

We have an extensive intellectual property portfolio. As of February 1, 2016, we own or have exclusive licenses to 577 issued U.S. patents and 406 pending U.S. patent applications, including 34 allowed applications that have not yet issued as patents. Our issued patents cover various aspects of our arrays, assays, oligo synthesis, sequencing technology, instruments, digital microfluidics, and chemical-detection technologies, and have terms that expire between 2016 and 2036. We continue to file new patent applications to protect the full range of our technologies. We have filed or have been granted counterparts for many of these patents and applications in foreign countries. 

We protect trade secrets, know-how, copyrights, and trademarks, as well as continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position. Our success depends in part on obtaining patent protection for our products and processes, preserving trade secrets, patents, copyrights and trademarks, operating without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties, and acquiring licenses for technology or products. 

&#32;8 

We are party to various exclusive and nonexclusive license agreements and other arrangements with third parties that grant us rights to use key aspects of our sequencing and array technologies, assay methods, chemical detection methods, reagent kits, and scanning equipment. Our exclusive licenses expire with the termination of the underlying patents, which will occur between 2016 and 2032. We have additional nonexclusive license agreements with various third parties for other components of our products. In most cases, the agreements remain in effect over the term of the underlying patents, may be terminated at our request without further obligation, and require that we pay customary royalties. 

Research and Development 

Illumina has historically made substantial investments in research and development. Our research and development efforts prioritize continuous innovation coupled with product evolution. 

Research and development expenses for fiscal 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 &#32;were $401.5 million , $388.1 million , and $276.7 million , respectively. We expect research and development expense to increase during 2016 &#32;to support business growth and continuing expansion in research and product-development efforts. 

Marketing and Distribution 

We market and distribute our products directly to customers in North America, Europe, Latin America, and the Asia-Pacific region. In each of these areas, dedicated sales, service, and application-support personnel are expanding and supporting their respective customer bases. In addition, we sell through life-science distributors in certain markets within Europe, the Asia-Pacific region, Latin America, the Middle East, and South Africa. We expect to continue increasing our sales and distribution resources during 2016 &#32;and beyond as we launch new products and expand our potential customer base. 

Manufacturing 

We manufacture sequencing and array platforms, reagent kits, and scanning equipment. In 2015, we continued to increase our manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand. To address increasing product complexity and volume, we continue to automate manufacturing processes to accelerate throughput and improve quality and yield. We are committed to providing medical devices and related services that consistently meet customer and applicable regulatory requirements. We adhere to access and safety standards required by federal, state, and local health ordinances, such as standards for the use, handling, and disposal of hazardous substances. Our key manufacturing and distribution facilities operate under a quality management system certified to ISO 13485. 

Raw Materials 

Our manufacturing operations require a wide variety of raw materials, electronic and mechanical components, chemical and biochemical materials, and other supplies. Multiple commercial sources provide many of our components and supplies, but there are some raw materials and components that we obtain from single-source suppliers. To manage potential risks arising from single source suppliers, we believe that we could redesign our products using alternative components or for use with alternative reagents, if necessary. In addition, while we attempt to keep our inventory at minimal levels, we purchase incremental inventory as circumstances warrant to protect our supply chain. If the capabilities of our suppliers and component manufacturers are limited or stopped, due to disasters, quality, regulatory, or other reasons, it could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products. 

&#160; 

Competition 

Although we believe that our products and services provide significant advantages over products and services currently available from other sources, we expect continued intense competition. Our competitors offer products and services for sequencing, SNP genotyping, gene expression, and molecular diagnostics markets. They include companies such as Affymetrix, Inc., Agilent Technologies, Inc., BGI, Pacific Biosciences of California, Inc., QIAGEN N.V., Roche Holding AG., and Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc., among others. Some of these companies have or will have substantially greater financial, technical, research, and other resources than we do, along with larger, more established marketing, sales, distribution, and service organizations. In addition, they may have greater name recognition than we do in the markets we address, and in some cases a larger installed base of systems. We expect new competitors to emerge and the intensity of competition to increase. To compete effectively, we must scale our organization and infrastructure appropriately and demonstrate that our products have superior throughput, cost, and accuracy. 

&#32;9 

Segment and Geographic Information 

In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance for segment reporting, we have determined that we have one reportable segment for purposes of recording and reporting our financial results. 

We currently sell our products to a number of customers outside the United States, including customers in other areas of North America, Latin America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region. Shipments to customers outside the United States totaled $1,012.4 million , or 46% &#32;of our total revenue, during fiscal 2015 , compared to $910.7 million , or 49% , and $706.5 million , or 50% , in fiscal 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. The U.S. dollar has been determined to be the functional currency of the Company&#8217;s international operations due to the primary activities of our foreign subsidiaries. We expect that sales to international customers will continue to be an important and growing source of revenue. See note &#8220;12. Segment Information, Geographic Data, and Significant Customers&#8221; in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information concerning our foreign and domestic operations. 

Backlog 

Our backlog was approximately $560 million &#32;as of January 3, 2016 . Generally, our backlog consists of orders believed to be firm as of the balance-sheet date. However, we may allow customers to make product substitutions as we launch new products. The timing of shipments depends on several factors, including agreed upon shipping schedules, which may span multiple quarters, and whether the product is catalog or custom. We expect most of the backlog as of January 3, 2016 , to be shipped within the fiscal year ending January 1, 2017 , with the most notable exception being $130 million &#32;in backlog related to the Genomics England sequencing services project. Although we generally recognize revenue upon the transfer of title to a customer, some customer agreements or applicable accounting treatments might require us to defer the recognition of revenue beyond title transfer. 

Environmental Matters 

We are committed to the protection of our employees and the environment. Our operations require the use of hazardous materials that subject us to various federal, state, and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. We believe that we are in material compliance with current applicable laws and regulations. However, we could be held liable for damages and fines should contamination of the environment or individual exposures to hazardous substances occur. In addition, we cannot predict how changes in these laws and regulations, or the development of new laws and regulations, will affect our business operations or the cost of compliance. 

Government Regulation 

As we expand product lines to address the diagnosis of disease, regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries will become an increasingly significant factor in development, testing, production, and marketing. Products that we develop in the molecular diagnostic markets, depending on their intended use, may be regulated as medical devices by the FDA and comparable agencies in other countries. In the United States, certain of our products may require FDA clearance following a pre-market notification process, also known as a 510(k) clearance, or premarket approval (PMA) from the FDA before marketing. The shorter 510(k) clearance process, which we used for the FDA-cleared assays that are run on our FDA-regulated MiSeqDx instrument, generally takes from three to six months after submission, but it can take significantly longer. The longer PMA process is much more costly and uncertain. It generally takes from 9 to 18 months after a complete filing, but it can take significantly longer and typically requires conducting clinical studies, which are not always needed for a 510(k) clearance. All of the products that are currently regulated by the FDA as medical devices are also subject to the FDA Quality System Regulation (QSR). Obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals, including the FDA quality system inspections that are required for PMA approval, can be expensive and may involve considerable delay. 

We cannot be certain which of our planned molecular diagnostic products will be subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process and, in fact, some of our products may need to go through the PMA process. The regulatory approval process for such products may be significantly delayed, may be significantly more expensive than anticipated, and may conclude without such products being approved by the FDA. Without timely regulatory approval, we may not be able to launch or successfully commercialize such products. 

Changes to the current regulatory framework, including the imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any time during the development or marketing of our products. This may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain FDA or 

&#32;10 

comparable regulatory approval of our products. In addition, the FDA may introduce new requirements that may change the regulatory requirements for either or both Illumina or Illumina customers. 

If our products labeled as &#8220;Research Use Only,&#8221; or RUO, are used, or could be used, for the diagnosis of disease, the regulatory requirements related to marketing, selling, and supporting such products could be uncertain. This is true even if such use by our customers occurs without our consent. If the FDA or other regulatory authorities assert that any of our RUO products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. 

Illumina products sold as medical devices in Europe will be regulated under the In Vitro Diagnostics Directive (98/79/EC). This regulation includes requirements for both presentation and review of performance data and quality-system requirements. 

Certain of our diagnostic products are currently available through laboratories that are certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvements Amendments (CLIA) of 1988. These products are commonly called &#8220;laboratory developed tests,&#8221; or LDTs. For a number of years, the FDA has exercised its regulatory enforcement discretion to not regulate LDTs as medical devices if created and used within a single laboratory. However, as discussed in more detail under &#8220;Risk Factors,&#8221; the FDA is reexamining this regulatory approach and changes to the agency&#8217;s handling of LDTs could impact our business in ways that cannot be predicted at this time. Certification of CLIA laboratories includes standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, and quality control procedures. CLIA also mandates that, for high complexity labs such as ours, to operate as a lab, we must have an accreditation by an organization recognized by CLIA such as the College of Pathologists (CAP), which we have obtained and must maintain. If we were to lose our CAP accreditation, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, state laboratory licensing and inspection requirements may also apply to our products, which, in some cases, are more stringent than CLIA requirements. 

&#160; 

Employees 

As of January 3, 2016 , we had more than 4,600 &#32;employees. We consider our employee relations to be positive. Our success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain employees. In addition, we employ a number of temporary and contract employees. We face competition in this regard from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities, and other organizations. 

