 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

OVERVIEW 

Cinedigm Corp. was incorporated in Delaware on March 31, 2000 (&#8220;Cinedigm&#8221;, and collectively with its subsidiaries, the &#8220;Company&#8221;). We are (i) a leading distributor and aggregator of independent movie, television and other short form content managing a library of distribution rights to thousands of titles and episodes released across digital, physical, and home and mobile entertainment platforms as well as (ii) a leading servicer of digital cinema assets on over 12,000 &#32;domestic and foreign movie screens. 

Since our inception, we have played a significant role in the digital distribution revolution that continues to transform the media landscape. In addition to our pioneering role in transitioning over 12,000 movie screens from traditional analog film prints to digital distribution, we have become a leading distributor of independent content, both through organic growth and acquisitions. We distribute products for major brands such as the Discovery Networks, National Geographic and Scholastic as well as leading international and domestic content creators, movie producers, television producers and other short form digital content producers. We collaborate with producers, major brands and other content owners to market, source, curate and distribute quality content to targeted audiences through (i) existing and emerging digital home entertainment platforms, including but not limited to, iTunes, Amazon Prime, Netflix, Hulu, Xbox, PlayStation, and cable video-on-demand ("VOD") and (ii) physical goods, including DVD 

and Blu-ray Discs. In addition, we operate a growing number of branded and curated over-the-top ("OTT") entertainment channels, including Docurama, CONtv and Dove Entertainment Channel. 

We report our financial results in four primary segments as follows: (1) the first digital cinema deployment (&#8220;Phase I Deployment&#8221;), (2) the second digital cinema deployment (&#8220;Phase II Deployment&#8221;), (3) digital cinema services (&#8220;Services&#8221;) and (4) media content and entertainment group (&#8220;Content &#38; Entertainment&#8221; or "CEG"). The Phase I Deployment and Phase II Deployment segments are the non-recourse, financing vehicles and administrators for our digital cinema equipment (the &#8220;Systems&#8221;) installed in movie theatres throughout the United States and Canada, and in Australia and New Zealand. Our Services segment provides fee-based support to over 12,000 &#32;movie screens in our Phase I Deployment and Phase II Deployment segments as well as directly to exhibitors and other third party customers in the form of monitoring, billing, collection and verification services. Our Content &#38; Entertainment segment is a market leader in: (1) ancillary market aggregation and distribution of entertainment content, and (2) branded and curated OTT digital network business providing entertainment channels and applications. 

We are structured so that our digital cinema business (collectively, our Phase I Deployment, Phase II Deployment and Services segments) operates independently from our Content &#38; Entertainment business. As of March 31, 2016 , we had approximately $116.9 million &#32;of non-recourse outstanding debt principal that relates to and is serviced by, our digital cinema business. We also have approximately $90.9 million &#32;of outstanding debt principal, as of March 31, 2016 &#32;that is attributable to our Content &#38; Entertainment and Corporate segments. 

CONTENT &#38; ENTERTAINMENT 

Content Distribution and our OTT Entertainment Channels and Applications 

Cinedigm Entertainment Group, or CEG, is a leading independent content distributor in the United States as well as an innovator and leader in the quickly evolving OTT digital network business. We are unique among most independent distributors because of our direct relationships with thousands of physical retail locations and digital platforms, including Walmart, Target, iTunes, Netflix and Amazon, as well as the national Video on Demand platforms. Our library of films and television episodes encompass award-winning documentaries from Docurama Films&#174;, next-gen Indies from Flatiron Film Company&#174;, acclaimed independent films and festival picks through partnerships with the Sundance Institute and Tribeca Films, and a wide range of content from brand name suppliers, including Discovery, Scholastic, NFL, Shout! Factory, Hallmark and Jim Henson. 

Additionally, we are leveraging our infrastructure, technology, content and distribution expertise to rapidly and cost effectively build and expand our OTT digital network business. Our first channel, Docurama, launched in May 2014 as an advertising-supported video on demand service ("AVOD") across most Internet connected devices and now contains hundreds of documentary films for download. In March 2015, Wizard World, Inc. and we launched CONtv, a targeted lifestyle channel and "Freemium" service with both AVOD and subscription video on demand offerings ("SVOD"). Our Freemium business model provides users with free content and the ability to upgrade to a selection of premium services by paying subscription fees. CONtv is one of the largest Freemium OTT channels available in terms of hours of content, with thousands of hours of content, including original programs and behind the scenes footage direct from Wizard World Comic Con gatherings. Docurama and CONtv are available across most major platforms, including Apple iOS, Google Android, Roku players and TV, Samsung SmartHub devices and we expect more devices to come to market. In the fall of 2015, we introduced our third OTT channel, Dove Entertainment Channel, which is a freemium service targeted to families and kids seeking high quality and family friendly content approved by the Dove Foundation. We continue to search for other branded partners to launch additional channels. 

CEG has focused its activities in the areas of: (1) ancillary market aggregation and distribution of entertainment content, and (2) branded and curated over-the-top OTT digital network business providing entertainment channels and applications. With these complementary entertainment distribution capabilities, we believe that we are capitalizing on the key drivers of value that we believe are critical to success in content distribution going forward. 

In our fiscal years 2013 and 2014, we acquired the businesses of two home entertainment content providers and distributors that have made our CEG segment one of the leading independent content distributors in the United States. Our CEG segment holds direct relationships with thousands of physical storefronts and digital retailers, including Walmart, Target, iTunes, Netflix, and Amazon, as well as all the national cable and satellite television VOD platforms. 

Our Strategy 

Direct to consumer digital distribution of film and television content over the Internet is rapidly growing. We believe that our large library of film and television episodes, long-standing digital relationships with platforms, and up-to-date technologies, will allow us to build and successfully launch a diversified portfolio of narrowcast OTT channels that generate recurring revenue streams 

from advertising, merchandising and subscriptions. We plan to launch niche channels that make use of our existing library of titles, while partnering with strong brands that bring name recognition, marketing support and an existing customer base. 

Rapid changes in the entertainment landscape require that we continually refine our strategy to adapt to new technologies and consumer behaviors. For example, we have shifted our acquisitions of home entertainment content to focus on long-term partnerships with producers of high quality, cast-driven, genre content, rather than traditional catalog based titles. In recent years, we acquired the distribution rights to a variety of new and original films. In addition, we have accelerated our efforts to be a leader in the OTT digital network business, where we can leverage our existing infrastructure and library, in partnership with well-known brands, to distribute our content direct-to-consumers. 

To market the films that we distribute, we have the films appear in a limited number of theatres, while simultaneously being available on VOD. This non-traditional, film-releasing model has allowed us to maximize publicity and make the film available to a large national audience. 

We believe that we are well positioned to succeed in the OTT channel business for several key reasons: 

&#8226; 

The enormous depth and breadth of our almost 50,000 title film and television episode library, 

&#8226; 

Our digital assets and deep, long-standing relationships as launch partners that cover the major digital platforms and devices, 

&#8226; 

Our marketing expertise, 

&#8226; 

Our flexible releasing strategies, which differ from larger entertainment companies that need to protect their legacy businesses, and 

&#8226; 

Our strengthened capital base 

Intellectual Property 

We own certain copyrights, trademarks and Internet domain names in connection with the Content &#38; Entertainment business. We view these proprietary rights as valuable assets. We maintain registrations, where appropriate, to protect them and monitor them on an ongoing basis. 

Customers 

For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 , two &#32;customers, Walmart and Amazon, represented 10% or more of CEG's revenues and one of these customers represented approximately 21% &#32;of our consolidated revenues. 

Competition 

Numerous companies are engaged in various forms of producing and distributing independent movies and alternative content. These competitors may have significantly greater financial, marketing and managerial resources than we do, may have generated greater revenue and may be better known than we are at this time. 

Competitors to our Content &#38; Entertainment segment are as follows: 

&#8226; 

Anchor Bay Entertainment 

&#8226; 

Crunchyroll 

&#8226; 

Entertainment One (eOne) Ltd. 

&#8226; 

Image Entertainment, Inc. 

&#8226; 

IFC Entertainment 

&#8226; 

Lions Gate Entertainment 

&#8226; 

Magnolia Pictures 

&#8226; 

Roadside Attractions LLC 

&#8226; 

The Weinstein Company 

DEPLOYMENT 

Our Phase I Deployment and Phase II Deployment segments consist of the following: 

Operations of: 

&#160; 

Products and services provided: 

Cinedigm Digital Funding I, LLC (&#8220;Phase 1 DC&#8221;) 

&#160; 

Financing vehicles and administrators for 3,724 Systems installed nationwide in Phase 1 DC's deployment to theatrical exhibitors. We retain ownership of the Systems and the residual cash flows related to the Systems after the repayment of all non-recourse debt at the expiration of exhibitor, master license agreements. As of March 31, 2016, we are no longer earning virtual print fees ("VPFs") revenues from certain major studios on 101 of such systems. 

Access Digital Cinema Phase 2 Corp. (&#8220;Phase 2 DC&#8221;) 

&#160; 

Financing vehicles and administrators for our 8,931 Systems installed in the second digital cinema deployment and international deployments, through Phase 2 DC. We retain no ownership of the residual cash flows and digital cinema equipment after the completion of cost recoupment and at the expiration of the exhibitor master license agreements. 

In June 2005, we formed our Phase I Deployment segment in order to purchase up to 4,000 Systems under an amended framework agreement with Christie Digital Systems USA, Inc. (&#8220;Christie&#8221;). As of March 31, 2016 , Phase I Deployment had 3,724 &#32;Systems installed. 

In October 2007, we formed our Phase II Deployment segment for the administration of up to 10,000 additional Systems. As of March 31, 2016 , Phase II Deployment had 8,931 &#32;of such Systems installed. 

Our Phase I Deployment and Phase II Deployment segments own and license Systems to theatrical exhibitors and collect VPFs from motion picture studios and distributors, as well as alternative content fees ("ACFs") from alternative content providers and theatrical exhibitors, when content is shown on exhibitors' screens. We have licensed the necessary software and technology solutions to the exhibitor and have facilitated the industry's transition from analog (film) to digital cinema. As part of the Phase I Deployment of our Systems, we have agreements with nine motion picture studios and certain smaller independent studios and exhibitors, allowing us to collect VPFs and ACFs when content is shown in theatres, in exchange for having facilitated and financed the deployment of Systems. Phase 1 DC has agreements with 20 theatrical exhibitors that license our Systems in order to show digital content distributed by the motion picture studios and other providers, including Content &#38; Entertainment, which is described below. 

Beginning in December 2015, certain Phase 1 DC Systems began to reach the conclusion of their deployment payment period with certain distributors and, therefore, VPF revenues ceased to be recognized on such Systems. Furthermore, because the Phase I deployment installation period ended in November 2007, a majority of the VPF revenue associated with the Phase I systems will end by November 2017. While the absence of such revenue was not material to our financial statements during the fiscal year ending March 31, 2016, it is expected to have a material impact in subsequent periods. As of March 31, 2016, 101 of the systems in our Phase I deployment had ceased to earn VPF revenue from certain major studios. By December 2016, we expect that more than 50% of our Phase I deployment systems will cease to earn VPF revenue from certain major studios and by December 2017, we expect that nearly all of our Phase I deployment systems will no longer earn VPF revenue from certain major studios. We expect to continue to earn ancillary revenue streams from the Phase I deployment Systems through December of 2020; however, such amounts are expected to be significantly less material to our consolidated financial statements. The expected reduction in VPF revenue on our Phase I systems is scheduled to approximately coincide with the conclusion of certain of our non-recourse debt obligations and, therefore, we expect that reduced cash outflows related to such non-recourse debt obligations will partially offset reduced VPF revenue after November 2017. 

Our Phase II Deployment segment has entered into digital cinema deployment agreements with eight motion picture studios, and certain smaller independent studios and exhibitors, to distribute digital movie releases to exhibitors equipped with our Systems, for which we and our wholly owned, non-consolidated subsidiary Cinedigm Digital Funding 2, LLC ("CDF2 Holdings") earn VPFs. As of March 31, 2016 , our Phase II Deployment segment also entered into master license agreements with 434 &#32;exhibitors and CDF2 covering 8,992 screens, whereby the exhibitors agreed to install our Systems. As of March 31, 2016 , we had 8,931 &#32;Phase 2 DC Systems installed, including 6,428 &#32;screens under the exhibitor-buyer structure ("Exhibitor-Buyer Structure"), 1,050 &#32;screens covering 10 exhibitors through non-recourse financing provided by KBC Bank NV (&#8220;KBC&#8221;), 1,421 &#32;screens covering 179 exhibitors through CDF2, and 22 &#32;screens under other arrangements with two exhibitors. 

Exhibitors paid us an installation fee of up to $2.0 thousand &#32;per screen out of the VPFs collected by our Services segment. We manage the billing and collection of VPFs and remit to exhibitors all VPFs collected, less an administrative fee of approximately 10% . For Phase 2 DC Systems we own and finance on a non-recourse basis, we typically received a similar installation fee of up to $2.0 thousand &#32;per screen and an ongoing administrative fee of approximately 10% &#32;of VPFs collected. We have recorded no debt, property and equipment, financing costs or depreciation in connection with Systems covered under the Exhibitor-Buyer Structure and CDF2 Holdings. 

VPFs are earned pursuant to contracts with movie studios and distributors, whereby amounts are payable to our Phase I and Phase II deployment businesses according to fixed fee schedules, when movies distributed by studios are displayed in movie theatres using our installed Systems. One VPF is payable to us upon the initial booking of a movie, for every movie title displayed per System. Therefore, the amount of VPF revenue that we earn depends on the number of unique movie titles released and displayed using our Systems. Our Phase II Deployment segment earns VPF revenues only for Systems that it owns. 

Our Phase II Deployment agreements with distributors require payment of VPFs for ten years from the date that each system is installed; however, we may no longer collect VPFs once &#8220;cost recoupment&#8221;, as defined in the contracts with movie studios and distributors, is achieved. Cost recoupment will occur once the cumulative VPFs and other cash receipts collected by us have equaled the total of all cash outflows, including the purchase price of all Systems, all financing costs, all &#8220;overhead and ongoing costs&#8221;, as defined, subject to maximum agreed upon amounts during the four-year roll-out period and thereafter. Furthermore, if cost recoupment occurs before the end of the eighth contract year, a one-time &#8220;cost recoupment bonus&#8221; is payable to us by the studios. Cash flows, net of expenses, received by our Phase II Deployment business, following the achievement of cost recoupment, must be returned to the distributors on a pro-rata basis. At this time, we cannot estimate the timing or probability of the achievement of cost recoupment. 

Beginning in December 2018, certain Phase 2 DC Systems will have reached the conclusion of their deployment payment period, subject to earlier achievement of cost recoupment. In accordance with existing agreements with distributors, VPF revenues will cease to be recognized on such Systems. Because the Phase II deployment installation period ended in December 2012, a majority of the VPF revenue associated with the Phase II systems will end by December 2022 or earlier if cost recoupment is achieved. 

Customers 

Phase I and Phase II Deployment customers are mainly motion picture studios and theatrical exhibitors. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 , five &#32;customers, 20 th &#32;Century Fox, Warner Brothers, Disney Worldwide Services, Universal Pictures and Sony Pictures Releasing Corporation, each represented 10% or more of Phase 1 DC's revenues and together generated 68% , 61% &#32;and 31% &#32;of Phase 1 DC's, Phase 2 DC's and consolidated revenues, respectively. No single Phase 1 DC or Phase 2 DC customer comprised more than 10% of our consolidated accounts receivable. We expect to continue to conduct business with each of these customers during the fiscal year ending March 31, 2017 . 

Seasonality 

Revenues earned by our Phase I and Phase II Deployment segments from the collection of VPFs from motion picture studios are seasonal, coinciding with the timing of releases of movies by the motion picture studios. Generally, motion picture studios release the most marketable movies during the summer and the winter holiday season. The unexpected emergence of a hit movie during other periods can alter the traditional trend. The timing of movie releases can have a significant effect on our results of operations, and the results of one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for the next quarter or any other quarter. The seasonality of motion picture exhibition; however, has become less pronounced as the motion picture studios are releasing movies somewhat more evenly throughout the year. 

SERVICES 

Our Services segment provides monitoring, billing, collection, verification and other management services to Phase 1 DC and Phase 2 DC as well as to exhibitor-buyers who purchase their own equipment. Our Services segment provides such services to the 3,724 &#32;screens in the Phase 1 Deployment for a monthly service fee equal to 5% &#32;of the VPFs earned by Phase 1 DC and an incentive service fee equal to 2.5% &#32;of the VPFs earned by Phase 1 DC. The Services segment also provides services to the 8,931 &#32;Phase 2 Systems deployed, for which we typically receive a monthly fee of approximately 10% &#32;of the VPFs earned by Phase 2 DC. The total Phase 2 service fees are subject to an annual limitation under the terms of our agreements with motion picture studios, and are determined based upon the respective Exhibitor-Buyer Structure, KBC or CDF2 agreements. Unpaid services fees in any period remain an obligation to Phase 2 DC in the cost recoupment framework. Such fees are not recognized as income or accrued as an asset on our balance sheet given the uncertainty of the receipt and the timing thereof as future movie release and bookings are not known. Service fees are accrued and recognized only on deployed Phase 2 Systems. As a result, the annual service fee limitation is variable until these fees are paid. 

In February 2013, we (i) assigned to our wholly owned subsidiary, Cinedigm DC Holdings LLC (&#8220;DC Holdings &#8221;), the right and obligation to service the digital cinema projection systems from the Phase I Deployment and certain systems that were part of the Phase II Deployment, (ii) delegated to DC Holdings the right and obligation to service certain other systems that were part of the 

Phase II Deployment and (iii) assigned to DC Holdings the right to receive servicing fees from the Phase I and Phase II Deployments. We also transferred to DC Holdings certain of our operational staff whose responsibilities and activities relate solely to the operation of the servicing business and to provide DC Holdings with the right to use the supporting software and other intellectual property associated with the operation of the servicing business. 

Our Services segment also has international servicing partnerships in Australia and New Zealand with the Independent Cinema Association of Australia and is currently servicing 534 &#32;screens as of March 31, 2016 . 

Customers 

For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 , no customer comprised more than 10% of Services' revenues or accounts receivable. 

Competition 

Our Services segment faces limited competition domestically in its digital cinema services business as the major Hollywood movie studios have only signed digital cinema deployment agreements with five entities, including us, and the deployment period in North America is now complete. Competitors include: Digital Cinema Implementation Partners (&#8220;DCIP&#8221;), a joint venture of three large exhibitors (Regal Entertainment Group, AMC Entertainment Holdings, Inc. and Cinemark Holdings, Inc. focused on managing the conversions of those three exhibitors; Sony Digital Cinema, to support the deployment of Sony projection equipment; Christie Digital USA, Inc., to support the deployment of Christie equipment; and GDC, Inc., to support the deployment of GDC equipment. We have a significantly greater market share than all other competitors except for the DCIP consortium, which services approximately 16,000 total screens representing its consortium members. 

As we expand our servicing platform internationally, an additional competitors beyond those listed above consist of Arts Alliance, Inc., a leading digital cinema servicer focused on the European markets, GDC, as well as other potential local start-ups seeking to service a specific international market. We typically seek to partner with a leading local entity to combine our efficient servicing infrastructure and strong studio relationships with the necessary local market expertise and exhibitor relationships. 

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 

During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, we made the strategic decision to discontinue and exit our software business, Hollywood Software, Inc. d/b/a Cinedigm Software (&#8220;Software&#8221;), our direct, wholly owned subsidiary, in order to focus on our CEG segment. Furthermore, we believe that Software, which was previously included in our Services segment, no longer complemented our continuing operations because we were often in competition with Software customers. 

On September 23, 2014, we completed the sale of Software to a third party. See Note 3 - Discontinued Operations &#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements within Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data &#32;for further information. 

ENVIRONMENTAL 

The nature of our business does not subject us to environmental laws in any material manner. 

EMPLOYEES 

As of March 31, 2016 , we had 126 &#32;employees, with 8 &#32;part-time and 118 &#32;full-time, of which 23 &#32;are in sales and marketing, 46 &#32;are in operations, and 49 &#32;are in executive, finance, technology and administration functions. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

&#160; 

Our Internet website address is www.cinedigm.com. We will make available, free of charge at the &#8220;About Us - Investor Relations - Financial Information&#8221; section of its website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and all amendments to those reports and statements filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. 

In addition, the SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding companies that file electronically with the Commission. This information is available at www.sec.gov , the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. 

