 Item 1. Description of Business 

Overview

We are a clinical stage biopharmaceutical company dedicated to the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative treatments for cancer. Our mission is to improve the lives of cancer patients by developing next generation cancer therapies that are designed to maximize efficacy while minimizing the toxicity and side effects traditionally associated with cancer treatment. Our clinical pipeline features one oncology product candidate in Phase II clinical development, two oncology product candidates in Phase I clinical development, and additional compounds in pre-clinical development. Our strategy is to continue building a significant pipeline of innovative oncology product candidates that we intend to commercialize alone or with partners. Our three clinical stage drug candidates in active development are Archexin&#174;, RX-3117 and Supinoxin TM (RX-5902).

&#183; Archexin is a potential best-in-class, potent inhibitor of the protein kinase Akt-1, which we believe plays a critical role in cancer cell proliferation, survival, angiogenesis, metastasis and drug resistance. Archexin has received &#8220;orphan drug&#8221; designation from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the &#8220;FDA&#8221;) for renal cell carcinoma (&#8220;RCC&#8221;), glioblastoma, ovarian cancer, stomach cancer and pancreatic cancer. Orphan drug designation provides tax incentives for clinical research and a waiver from user fees under certain circumstances. In addition, an orphan drug receives seven years of exclusivity after approval, during which the FDA generally cannot approve another product with the same active moiety for the same indication. We have completed a pilot Phase IIa clinical trial of Archexin for the treatment of pancreatic cancer. We are currently conducting a Phase IIa proof-of-concept clinical trial of Archexin in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma to evaluate its safety and efficacy. 

&#160;

&#183; RX-3117 is a small molecule nucleoside compound with an anti-metabolite mechanism of action, and we believe it has therapeutic potential in a broad range of cancers, including pancreatic, bladder, colon, and lung cancer. We completed an exploratory Phase I clinical study of RX-3117 that showed a level of oral bioavailability of RX-3117 in humans with no adverse effects reported. We are currently conducting a Phase Ib clinical trial to study the safety and efficacy of RX-3117 in patients with solid tumors. RX-3117 has received orphan drug designation from the FDA for pancreatic cancer. 

&#183; Supinoxin , or RX-5902, is a potential first-in-class small molecule inhibitor of phosphorylated-p68, a protein that we believe plays a key role in cancer cell growth, progression and metastasis. We are currently conducting a Phase I clinical trial of Supinoxin to evaluate its safety and efficacy in patients with solid tumors. 

We also have one drug candidate in pre-clinical development: RX-21101, an N-(2-Hydroxypropyl) methacrylamide-docetaxel-folate, which we believe may provide increased efficacy against tumors with potentially fewer side effects as a result of specific tumor targeting and increased stability in the body.

In addition to our drug development efforts, we are also working on proprietary research technologies, including our multi-target aimed ligands platform and nano-based drug delivery systems. Our unique ligand discovery platform, The Inhibitors of Multi-Expression Signals (&#8220;TIMES&#8221;), permits us to identify potentially important targets that control multiple genes or signaling events in cancer cells. Our 3-D Gateway of Ligand Discovery (&#8220;3-D GOLD&#8221;) integrates three-dimensional molecular modeling with databases of chemicals and proteins and ligand filtering and generation, which helps us discover novel lead compounds. Leveraging this system, we believe that we are able to effectively develop predictive models, formulate and test hypotheses for optimizing efficacy, and increase drug safety and bioavailability early in the drug discovery process. Our nano-based drug delivery systems, such as those used in the multiple nanoliposomal- and nanopolymer-based anti-cancer drugs that we are currently testing, may increase the availability of a drug at the disease site, minimize adverse reactions, and provide longer duration of action.

&#160;

Company Background

We trace our history to the March 2001 founding of Rexahn, Corp, which in 2005 merged with and into Rexahn Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (formerly Corporate Road Show.com Inc.). Dr. Peter Suzdak, our Chief Executive Officer since February 2013, has extensive experience in drug development, particularly in the field of oncology. Dr. Chang Ahn, our founder, Chief Scientist and Chairman Emeritus of our Board of Directors, is a former FDA reviewer and National Cancer Institute (NCI) research scientist. He guided our initial research and commercialization efforts in targeted oncology drugs.

Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE MKT under the trading symbol &#8220;RNN.&#8221; Our principal corporate office is located at 15245 Shady Grove Road, Suite 455, Rockville, Maryland 20850 in Maryland&#8217;s I-270 technology corridor. Our telephone number is (240) 268-5300.

Industry and Disease Markets

Market Overview

Our primary research and development focus is on oncology therapeutics. A key component of our strategy is to develop innovative drugs that are potential first-in-class or market-leading compounds for the treatment of cancer. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, cancer claims the lives of more than half a million Americans each year and is the second leading cause of death among Americans. In 2014, the World Economic Forum and the Harvard School of Public Health estimated that the 13.3 million new cases of cancer diagnosed worldwide in 2010 cost $290 billion, projected 21.5 million new cancer cases occurring in 2030 at a cost of $458 billion; and a 2016 American Cancer Society report projected that an estimated 1.7 million new cancer cases will be diagnosed in the United States in 2016. In 2015, Evaluate Pharma projected that global annual sales of cancer drugs would grow to $153 billion by 2020.

Current Cancer Treatments

Traditional cancer treatments involve surgery, radiation therapy and chemotherapy. Surgery is widely used to treat cancer, but may result in related or significant complications and may be ineffective if metastasis has occurred. Radiation therapy, or radiotherapy, can be highly effective in treating certain types of cancer. In radiation therapy, ionizing radiation deposits energy that injures or destroys cells in the area being treated by damaging their genetic material, making it impossible for these cells to continue to grow. Although radiation damages both cancer cells and normal cells, the normal cells are generally able to repair themselves and function properly. Chemotherapy involves the use of cytotoxic cancer drugs to destroy cancer cells by interfering with various stages of the cell division process. For certain cancers and in certain patients, these drugs have limited efficacy and debilitating adverse side effects. Administration of cytotoxic cancer drugs may also result in the development of multiple drug, or multi-drug, resistance, which is a condition that results when certain tumor cells that have survived treatment with cytotoxic drugs are no longer susceptible to treatment by those and other drugs.

&#160;

Unmet Needs in Cancer

Despite significant advances in cancer research and treatments, many unmet needs still remain including:

&#183; Long-term management of cancers : Surgery, radiation therapy or chemotherapy may not result in long-term remission, although surgery and radiation therapies are considered effective methods for some cancers. There is a need for more effective drugs and adjuvant therapies to treat relapsed and refractory cancers. 

&#183; Multi-drug resistance : Multi-drug resistance is a major obstacle to effectively treating various cancers with chemotherapy. 

&#183; Debilitating toxicity by chemotherapy : &#160; Chemotherapy as a mainstay of cancer treatment can induce severe adverse reactions and toxicities, adversely affecting quality of life or life itself. 

Market Opportunity

There are several factors that are favorable for commercializing new cancer drugs that may be first-in-class or market leaders, including:

&#183; Expedited Regulatory or Commercialization Pathways . Drugs for life-threatening diseases such as cancer are often candidates for fast track designation, breakthrough therapy designation, priority review and accelerated approval, each of which can lead to approval sooner than would otherwise be the case. 

&#160;

&#183; Favorable Environment for Formulary Access and Reimbursement . We believe cancer drugs with proven efficacy would gain rapid market uptake, formulary listing and third-party payor reimbursement. Drugs with orphan designations are generally reimbursed by third-party payors because there are few, if any, alternatives. 

&#160;

&#183; Focus on Specialty Markets . The marketing of new drugs to specialty physicians can be accomplished with a specialty sales force that requires fewer personnel and lower related costs than a typical sales force that markets widely to primary care physicians and general practitioners. 

Our Strategy

Our strategy is to continue building a significant product pipeline of innovative drug candidates that we intend to commercialize alone or with partners. This strategy has several key components.

Develop Innovative Therapeutics with the Potential to be First-in-Class or Market Leaders

We plan to focus our research and development pipeline on potential first-in-class or market-leading compounds for the treatment of cancer. By expanding the breadth and depth of our oncology pipeline, we aim to develop an industry-leading oncology therapeutics franchise. Our pipeline spans several major classes of cancer drugs, including molecular targeted therapies, signal transduction and multi-kinase inhibitors, and nano-medicines for targeted delivery of compounds and small molecule cytotoxic compounds. Differentiated target product profiles and proprietary discovery and research technology platforms further support these strategic efforts.

&#160;

Clinically Develop Drug Candidates as Orphan Drugs

We intend to initially develop drug candidates for cancers that are orphan indications. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to new drugs developed to treat diseases generally affecting less than 200,000 patients. Incentives associated with orphan drug designation include tax incentives for research and development and an exemption from user fees under certain circumstances. Although the standards for orphan drug approval are not different than for non-orphan products, the path to approval may be faster because clinical trials may be smaller due to the smaller patient population. Further, a drug that is approved for its orphan-designated indication generally receives seven years of orphan drug exclusivity, during which the FDA generally may not approve any other application for a product containing the same active moiety and proposed for the same indication. An approved orphan drug also may qualify for an exemption from the branded prescription drug fee. We plan to develop drug candidates for cancers that are orphan indications in order to take advantage of the benefits of orphan drug designation during development and the exclusivity available under the Orphan Drug Act for approved products, as well as the potential for reduced time to market. Drugs intended to treat rare diseases or conditions also may qualify for fast track designation, breakthrough therapy designation, accelerated approval and/or priority review, any or all of which can speed the approval process.

Target Signal Transduction Molecules with Multiple Drug Candidates

We plan to expand our research and development pipeline to introduce new signal inhibitor drugs into clinical trials in the future. By identifying and characterizing the genes and proteins that control the signaling pathways and gene expression of cancer cells, we seek to develop DNA/RNA-based and small-molecule drugs to treat a broad range of diseases caused by abnormal expression or functions of those genes and proteins.

Establish Partnerships with Large Pharmaceutical Companies

We seek to establish strategic alliances and partnerships with large pharmaceutical companies for the development of our drug candidates.

In-License Unique Technology

We continually review opportunities to in-license and advance compounds in oncology that have value creating potential and will strengthen our clinical development pipeline.

Capitalize on Our Management Team&#8217;s Expertise for Drug Development

Our management team possesses clinical development experience in oncology and several other therapeutic areas which facilitates strategic approaches to and competitive advantages in, the design, risk assessment and implementation of drug development programs. Our management team also has prior experience in pharmaceutical alliances, product launches and marketing.

&#160;

Our Pipeline Drug Candidates

Clinical Stage Pipeline

Archexin : Potential Best-in-class Anti-Cancer Akt-1 Inhibitor 

&#160;

Archexin is a potential best-in-class, potent inhibitor of the protein kinase Akt-1, which we believe plays a critical role in cancer cell proliferation, survival, angiogenesis, metastasis and drug resistance. Archexin has received orphan drug designation from the FDA for RCC, glioblastoma, ovarian cancer, stomach cancer and pancreatic cancer. We believe Archexin is differentiated from other Akt-1 inhibitors by its ability to inhibit both activated and inactivated forms of Akt-1, and as a result it is not expected to lead to drug resistance, which has been observed with other protein kinase inhibitors. Other targeted drugs may only inhibit inactivated Akt-1 and may also cause drug resistance. Akt-1 is over-activated in patients with many cancers, including breast, colorectal, gastric, pancreatic, prostate and melanoma cancers. Akt-1 activity may be inhibited by signaling molecules upstream of Akt-1 in cancer cells through the use of vascular endothelial growth factor and epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors, but this treatment only indirectly affects the activity of native Akt-1. Because signal transmission for cancer progression and resistance occurs when Akt-1 is activated, we believe it is also important to inhibit activated Akt-1. We believe Archexin inhibits both activated and native Akt-1.

Archexin is an antisense oligonucleotide compound that is complementary to Akt-1 mRNA and highly selective for inhibiting mRNA expression, which leads to reduced production of Akt-1 protein. Archexin preliminarily appeared to be safe and well tolerated with minimal side effects in a Phase I study in patients with advanced cancers, where Grade 3 fatigue was the only dose-limiting toxicity and no significant hematological abnormalities were observed. The main objectives of the Phase I study were to determine the maximum tolerated dose, dose limiting toxicity and pharmacokinetic parameters for Archexin monotherapy. The Archexin Phase I study design was an open label, single arm ascending dose, safety and tolerability study.

We have completed an open label, two-stage Phase IIa clinical trial for Archexin that was designed to assess the safety and efficacy of Archexin in combination with gemcitabine. Gemcitabine is used to treat pancreatic, breast, ovarian, and lung cancers, and may be used for other cancers as well. Gemcitabine is a member of a group of chemotherapy drugs known as anti-metabolites, which prevent cells from making DNA and RNA, which in turn stops cell growth and causes cells to die. Stage 1 was the dose-finding portion of the study, and Stage 2 was the dose-expansion portion of the study using the dose identified in Stage 1 administered together with gemcitabine. The study enrolled 31 subjects aged 18 to 65 with metastatic pancreatic cancer at nine centers in the United States and India. The primary endpoint was overall survival following four cycles of therapy with a six month follow-up. For those evaluable patients, the study showed that treatment with Archexin in combination with gemcitabine provided a median survival rate of 9.1 months compared to the historical survival data of 5.7 months for standard single agent gemcitabine therapy. The most frequently reported adverse events were constipation, nausea, abdominal pain and pyrexia, regardless of relatedness.

We are conducting an ongoing Phase IIa proof-of-concept clinical trial of Archexin to study its safety and efficacy in patients with metastatic RCC. In this trial, Archexin is being administered in combination with Afinitor&#174; (everolimus). The trial is being conducted in two stages. Stage 1 was a dose ranging study, with up to three dose groups with three RCC patients each, to determine its maximum tolerated dose (&#8220;MTD&#8221;) in combination with everolimus. In January 2016, we completed Stage 1 of the study and commenced enrollment in Stage 2, which is a randomized, open-label, two-arm dose expansion study of everolimus versus Archexin in combination with everolimus to determine safety and efficacy of the combination. This phase of the trial (Stage 2) is anticipated to enroll up to 30 RCC patients who will be randomized to receive either Archexin in combination with everolimus, or everolimus alone, in a ratio of 2:1 The MTD was determined to be 250 mg/m 2 /day of Archexin, which was identified in Stage 1 and will be administered in Stage 2 along with 10 mg of everolimus compared to 10 mg everolimus alone.

We have been issued a U.S. patent for Archexin that covers composition of matter and broad claims for the nucleotide sequences of the antisense compounds that target and inhibit the expression of Akt-1 in human tissues or cells, and for the method of using the compounds to induce cytotoxicity in cancer cells.

&#160;

RX-3117: Oral Small Molecule Nucleoside

RX-3117 is a novel, investigational oral small molecule nucleoside compound. In pre-clinical models when activated (phosphorylated) by uridine-cytidine kinase 2 (&#8220;UCK2&#8221;), a protein that is overexpressed in various human cancer cells, RX-3117 is incorporated into DNA or RNA of cells and inhibits both DNA and RNA synthesis, which induces apoptotic cell death of tumor cells. We believe RX-3117 has therapeutic potential in a broad range of cancers including pancreatic, bladder, lung, cervical, non-small cell lung cancer and colon cancer. RX-3117 has received orphan drug designation from the FDA for the treatment of patients with pancreatic cancer. RX-3117 has also been shown in animal models to inhibit the growth of gemcitabine-resistant human cancers and improve overall survival. 

RX-3117 has demonstrated broad spectrum anti-tumor activity against over 100 different human cancer cell lines and efficacy in 17 different mouse xenograft models. Notably, the efficacy of RX-3117 in the mouse xenograft models was superior to that of gemcitabine. Further, RX-3117 still retains its full anti-tumor activity in human cancer cell lines made resistant to the anti-tumor effects of gemcitabine. In August 2012, Rexahn reported the completion of an exploratory Phase I clinical trial of RX-3117 in cancer patients conducted in Europe, to investigate the oral bioavailability, safety and tolerability of the compound. In this study, oral administration of a 50 mg dose of RX-3117 demonstrated an oral bioavailability of 56% and a plasma half-life (T 1/2 ) of 14 hours. In addition, RX-3117 appeared to be safe and well tolerated in all subjects throughout the dose range tested.

We are currently evaluating RX-3117 in a Phase Ib clinical trial to study the safety, tolerability, dose-limiting toxicities and MTD in patients with solid tumors. Secondary endpoints include pharmacokinetic analysis and an evaluation of the preliminary anti-tumor effects of RX-3117.

Preliminary results from the Phase Ib clinical trial of RX-3117 were presented in September 2015 at the 2015 European Cancer Congress. The results showed that, at the dose levels tested to date, RX-3117 administered orally appeared to be safe and well tolerated with a predictable pharmacokinetic profile. The most frequently reported treatment emergent adverse events were mild to moderate fatigue, gastrointestinal disturbances, anemia, pyrexia, decreased appetite and dehydration.

In addition, preliminary anti-tumor activity was seen in the Phase Ib clinical trial, with evidence of tumor reduction observed in one patient and stable disease observed in five patients persisting from between 112 and 276 days before disease progression occurred.

Patient enrollment has been completed in nine dose groups (30mg, 60mg, 100mg, 150mg, 200mg, 500mg, 1,000mg, 1,500mg and 2,000 mg). Based on the favorable safety and pharmacokinetic profile seen at the highest dose levels, we initiated a dosing schedule modification to increase patients&#8217; daily exposure of RX-3117 in the ongoing Phase Ib clinical trial. All newly enrolled patients are now receiving RX-3117 five times weekly. We anticipate that the new dosing paradigm will increase drug exposure, maximizing potential therapeutic activity and enable more rapid determination of the MTD for further clinical study.

Based on the progress of the RX-3117 clinical development program and the level of interest expressed from a number of oncology-focused pharmaceutical companies, we are continuing discussions with multiple companies to explore collaborative business structures in an effort to maximize the potential value of the program.

&#160;

Supinoxin: Potential First-in-Class p68 RNA Helicase Inhibitor

Supinoxin is a potential first-in-class small molecule inhibitor of phosphorylated-p68, a protein that we believe plays a key role in cancer growth, progression and metastasis. Phosphorylated p68, which is highly expressed in cancer cells, but not in normal cells, results in up-regulation of cancer-related genes and a subsequent proliferation of cancer cells and tumor growth. Supinoxin selectively blocks phosphorylated p68, thereby decreasing the proliferation or growth of cancer cells. In pre-clinical tissue culture models and in-vivo xenograft models, Supinoxin has exhibited single-agent tumor growth inhibition, potential synergy with cytotoxic agents and activity against drug resistant cancer cells. In particular, in in-vivo xenograft models of human triple negative breast cancer and pancreatic cancer, treatment with Supinoxin on days one through 20 in mouse models produced a dose-dependent inhibition of tumor growth and a survival benefit.

Supinoxin is currently being evaluated in a Phase I dose-escalation clinical trial in cancer patients with solid tumors designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, dose-limiting toxicities and MTD. Secondary endpoints include pharmacokinetic analyses and an evaluation of the preliminary anti-tumor effects of Supinoxin. Patients have received doses up to 25, 50, 100, 150, 225, 300, 425, 575, and 775 mg. Based on the favorable safety and pharmacokinetic profile seen at the highest dose levels (575 mg and 775 mg), we have initiated a dosing schedule modification to increase patients' daily exposure of Supinoxin. All newly enrolled patients are now receiving Supinoxin seven times weekly as opposed to once weekly. We anticipate that the new dosing paradigm will increase drug exposure and enable more rapid determination of the MTD for further clinical study.

Preliminary results from the Phase I clinical trial of Supinoxin were presented in September 2015 at the 2015 European Cancer Congress.

The results showed that, at the dose levels tested to date, Supinoxin administered orally appeared to be safe and well tolerated with no Grade 3 or Grade 4 adverse events and several unrelated Grade 2 adverse events. The most frequently reported drug related adverse events were mild nausea, vomiting and fatigue. Pharmacokinetic analyses of the current data demonstrate both a predictable and desirable pharmacokinetic profile for an orally-administered route of therapy.

Clinical evidence of single-agent activity of Supinoxin was also observed in four patients who showed stable disease persisting from between 255 and 497 days as of September 14, 2015. At that time, three of the four patients exhibiting stable disease remained on active treatment. Those patients continue to be followed in the study.

Based on the progress of the Supinoxin clinical development program and the level of interest expressed from a number of oncology-focused pharmaceutical companies, we are continuing our discussions with multiple companies to explore collaborative business structures in an effort to maximize the potential commercial value of the program.

Pre-Clinical Pipeline

RX-21101: Nano-polymer Anti-cancer Drug

RX-21101 is an investigational anti-cancer nano-polymer drug that we believe can mitigate some of the limitations of cytotoxic compounds, such as poor solubility and severe adverse reactions. Conjugating water-soluble and non-toxic N-(2-Hydroxypropyl)methacrylamide to conventional anti-cancer compounds may bolster efficacy while lowering toxicity by specific tumor targeting and increased stability in the body. In June 2015, RX-21101 was selected by the National Cancer Institute's Nanotechnology Characterization Laboratory for its pre-clinical characterization program to facilitate the advancement of RX-21101 towards human clinical trials.

&#160;

Research and Development Process

We have engaged third-party contract research organizations and other investigators and collaborators, such as universities and medical institutions, to conduct our pre-clinical studies, toxicology studies and clinical trials. Engaging third-party contract research organizations is typical practice in our industry. However, relying on such organizations means that the clinical trials and other studies described above are being conducted at external locations and that the completion of these trials and studies is not within our direct control. Trials and studies may be delayed due to circumstances outside our control, and such delays may result in additional expenses for us. 

Competition

We compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs or have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as more experience in:

&#183; developing drugs; 

&#183; undertaking pre-clinical testing and human clinical trials; 

&#183; obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; 

&#183; formulating and manufacturing drugs; and 

&#183; launching, marketing and selling drugs. 

Large pharmaceutical companies currently sell both generic and proprietary compounds for the treatment of cancer. In addition, companies developing oncology therapies represent substantial competition. Many of these organizations have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staff and facilities, longer drug development history in obtaining regulatory approvals and greater manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. These organizations also compete with us to attract qualified personnel, parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations.

We are aware of products under development by our competitors that target the same indications as our clinical stage drug candidates. If approved, Archexin could compete with other Akt-1 inhibitors, such as MK-2206 and GSK-2141795, which are under development by Merck &#38; Company, Inc. and GlaxoSmithKline, respectively. Archexin will also compete with carbozantinib, a multi-kinase inhibitor under development by Exelixis for RCC. If approved, RX-3117 could compete with other compounds with an anti-metabolite mechanism of action in cancers, such as sapacitabine which is under development by Cyclacel. We are not currently aware of known inhibitors of phosphorylated p68 that would compete with Supinoxin if Supinoxin were approved. Our competitors may succeed in developing products that are more safe and/or effective than ours, which could render our product candidates less competitive prior to recovery by us of expenses incurred with respect to their development.

&#160;

Government Regulation

Regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and in other countries is a significant consideration in our product development, manufacturing and marketing strategies. We expect that all of our drug candidates will require regulatory approval by the FDA and by similar regulatory authorities in foreign countries prior to commercialization and will be subjected to rigorous pre-clinical, clinical, and post-approval testing to demonstrate safety and effectiveness, as well as other significant regulatory requirements and restrictions in each jurisdiction in which we would seek to market our products. U.S. federal laws and regulations govern the testing, development, manufacture, quality control, safety, effectiveness, approval, storage, labeling, record keeping, reporting, distribution, import, export and marketing of all biopharmaceutical products intended for therapeutic purposes. We believe that we and the third parties that work with us are in compliance in all material respects with currently applicable rules and regulations. Those rules and regulations are subject to change, however, and in any event, a failure to comply could have a material negative impact on our ability to successfully develop and commercialize our products, and therefore on our financial performance.

Obtaining governmental approvals and maintaining ongoing compliance with applicable regulations are expected to require the expenditure of significant financial and human resources not currently at our disposal. We plan to fulfill our short-term needs through consulting agreements and joint ventures with academic or corporate partners while developing our own internal infrastructure for long-term corporate growth.

Development and Approval

The process to obtain approval for biopharmaceutical compounds for commercialization in the United States and many other countries is lengthy, complex and expensive, and the outcome is far from certain. Although foreign requirements for conducting clinical trials and obtaining approval may be different than in the United States, they often are equally rigorous and the outcome cannot be predicted with confidence. A key component of any submission for approval in any jurisdiction is pre-clinical and clinical data demonstrating the product&#8217;s safety and effectiveness.

Pre-clinical Testing. Before testing any compound in humans in the United States, a company must develop pre-clinical data, generally including laboratory evaluation of product chemistry and formulation, as well as toxicological and pharmacological studies in animal species to assess safety and quality. Certain types of animal studies must be conducted in compliance with the FDA&#8217;s Good Laboratory Practice (&#8220;GLP&#8221;) regulations and the Animal Welfare Act, which is enforced by the Department of Agriculture.

IND Application. In the United States, FDA regulations require that the person or entity sponsoring or conducting a clinical study for the purpose of investigating a candidate&#8217;s safety and effectiveness submit to the FDA an investigational new drug (&#8220;IND&#8221;) application, which contains pre-clinical testing results and provides a basis for the FDA to conclude that there is an adequate basis for testing the drug in humans. If the FDA does not object to the IND application within 30 days of submission, the clinical testing proposed in the IND may begin. Even after the IND has gone into effect and clinical testing has begun, the FDA may put the clinical trials on &#8220;clinical hold,&#8221; suspending (or in some cases, ending) them because of safety concerns or for other reasons.

&#160;

Clinical Trials. Clinical trials involve administering a drug to human volunteers or patients, under the supervision of a qualified clinical investigator. Clinical trials are subject to extensive regulation. In the United States, this includes compliance with the FDA&#8217;s bioresearch monitoring regulations and Good Clinical Practice (&#8220;GCP&#8221;) requirements, which establish standards for conducting, recording data from, and reporting the results of, clinical trials, with the goal of assuring that the data and results are credible and accurate and that study participants&#8217; rights, safety and well-being are protected. Each clinical trial must be conducted under a protocol that details the study objectives, parameters for monitoring safety and the efficacy criteria, if any, to be evaluated. The protocol is submitted to the FDA as part of the IND and reviewed by the agency before the study begins. Additionally, each clinical trial must be reviewed, approved and conducted under the auspices of an Institutional Review Board (&#8220;IRB&#8221;) at the institution at which the trial is being conducted. The sponsor of a clinical trial, the investigators and IRBs each must comply with requirements and restrictions that govern obtaining informed consent from each study subject, complying with the protocol and investigational plan, adequately monitoring the clinical trial, and timely reporting adverse events. Foreign studies conducted under an IND must meet the same requirements applicable to studies conducted in the United States. However, if a foreign study is not conducted under an IND, the data may still be submitted to the FDA in support of a product application, if the study was conducted in accordance with GCP and the FDA is able to validate the data.

Sponsors of clinical trials are required to make public certain information about active clinical trials and trial results by posting the information on government or independent websites, such as http://clinicaltrials.gov. Clinical testing is typically performed in three phases.

In Phase I, the drug is administered to a small number of human subjects to confirm its safety and to develop detailed profiles of its pharmacological and pharmacokinetic actions ( i.e. , absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion). Although Phase I trials typically are conducted in healthy human subjects, in some instances (including, for example, with some cancer therapies) the study subjects are patients with the targeted disease or condition.

In Phase II, the drug is administered to groups of patients (usually no more than several hundred) to develop initial data regarding efficacy against the targeted disease and determine the requisite dose and dose intervals, and generate additional information regarding the drug&#8217;s safety. In a typical development program, additional animal toxicology studies precede this phase. In some cases, the trial can be split into Phase IIa and IIb studies in order to test smaller subject pools. Some Phase I clinical studies may proceed in parallel with some Phase II studies.

In Phase III, the drug is administered to a larger group of patients (usually from several hundred to several thousand or more). Phase III studies also can include patients with concomitant diseases and medications. Larger patient populations are evaluated in Phase III at multiple study sites and registration studies may be conducted concurrently for the sake of time and efficiency. The extensive clinical testing is intended to obtain additional information about product safety and effectiveness necessary to evaluate the drug&#8217;s overall risk-benefit profile and to provide a basis for physician labeling. Phase III data often form the core basis on which the FDA evaluates the product&#8217;s safety and effectiveness when considering an application to market the drug.

The study sponsor, the FDA or an IRB may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a determination that study subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Additionally, success in early-stage clinical trials does not assure success in later-stage clinical trials, and data from clinical trials are not always conclusive and may be subject to alternative interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent approval.

NDA Submission and Review. After completing the clinical studies, a sponsor seeking approval to market a drug in the United States submits to the FDA a New Drug Application (&#8220;NDA&#8221;). The NDA is a comprehensive, multi-volume application intended to demonstrate the product&#8217;s safety and effectiveness and includes, among other things, pre-clinical and clinical data, information about the drug&#8217;s composition, the sponsor&#8217;s plans for manufacturing and packaging and proposed labeling. When an NDA is submitted, the FDA makes an initial determination as to whether the application is sufficiently complete to be accepted for review. If the application is not, the FDA may refuse to accept the NDA for filing and request additional information. A refusal to file, which requires resubmission of the NDA with the requested additional information, delays review of the application.

&#160;

FDA performance goals regarding the timeliness of NDA review generally provide for action on an NDA within 12 months of its submission. That deadline can be extended under certain circumstances, including by FDA requests for additional information. The targeted action date can also be shortened to eight months after submission, for products that are intended to treat serious or life-threatening conditions and demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs. Additionally, the FDA has programs for enhanced communication and consultation and other steps to expedite submission and consideration of such products. &#160; For example, the Fast Track program is intended to expedite or facilitate the process for reviewing new drugs that demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs involving serious or life-threatening diseases or conditions. If a drug receives Fast Track designation, the FDA may consider reviewing sections of the NDA on a rolling basis, rather than requiring the entire application to be submitted to begin the review. Products with Fast Track designation also may be eligible for more frequent meetings and correspondence with the FDA about the product's development. Other FDA programs intended to expedite development and review include Accelerated Approval (i.e., approval on the basis of a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit) and Breakthrough Therapy designation, which is available for drugs under development for serious or life-threatening conditions and where preliminary clinical evidence shows that the drug may have substantial improvement on at least one clinically significant endpoint over available therapy. If a drug receives Breakthrough Therapy designation, it will be eligible for all of the benefits of Fast Track designation, as well as for more intensive guidance from the FDA on an efficient drug development program and a commitment from the agency to involve senior FDA managers in such guidance. Even if a product qualifies for Fast Track designation or Breakthrough Therapy designation, the FDA may later decide that the product no longer meets the conditions for qualification, and/or may determine that the product does not meet the standards for approval. We anticipate, but cannot ensure, that our products will qualify for such programs.

If it concludes that an NDA does not meet the regulatory standards for approval, the FDA typically issues a Complete Response letter, which communicates the reasons for the agency&#8217;s decision not to approve the application and may request additional information, including additional clinical data. An NDA may be resubmitted with the deficiencies addressed, but that does not guarantee approval. Data from clinical trials are not always conclusive, and the FDA&#8217;s interpretation of data may differ from the sponsor&#8217;s. Obtaining approval can take years, requires substantial resources and depends on a number of factors, including the severity of the targeted disease or condition, the availability of alternative treatments, and the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials. Additionally, as a condition of approval, the FDA may impose restrictions that could affect the commercial prospects of a product, such as a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, and could require post-approval commitments to conduct additional studies or conduct surveillance programs to monitor the drug&#8217;s effects.

Moreover, once a product is approved, information about its safety or effectiveness from actual use can limit or prevent successful commercialization, either because of regulatory action or market forces. Post-approval modifications to a drug product, such as changes in indications, labeling or manufacturing processes or facilities, may require development and submission of additional information or data in a new or supplemental NDA, which would also require FDA approval.

One of our drug candidates, Archexin is an antisense oligonucleotide (&#8220;ASO&#8221;) compound. To date, the FDA has not approved any NDAs for any ASO compounds for cancer treatment; however, the FDA has approved the ASO compounds fomivirsen (marketed as Vitravene &#174; ) as a treatment for cytomegalovirus retinitis, and mipomersen sodium (marketed as Kynamro &#174; ), as a treatment for homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. In addition, Archexin is in a drug class known as Akt-1 inhibitors, and drugs from this class have not been approved by the FDA to date. 

&#160;

We have not submitted an NDA for any of our drug candidates.

Exclusivity and Patent Protection. In the United States and elsewhere, certain regulatory exclusivities and patent rights can provide an approved drug product with protection from certain competitors&#8217; products for a period of time and within a certain scope. In the United States, those protections include exclusivity under the Orphan Drug Act, which is available for drugs intended to treat rare diseases or conditions, which generally are diseases or conditions that affect fewer than 200,000 persons in the United States. If a sponsor demonstrates that a drug is intended to treat a rare disease or condition, the FDA grants orphan drug designation to the product for that use. A product that has received orphan drug designation is eligible for research and development tax credits and is exempt from user fees under certain circumstances. Additionally, a drug that is approved for its orphan-designated indication generally receives seven years of orphan drug exclusivity. During that period, FDA generally may not approve any other application for a product containing the same active moiety and proposed for the same indication. There are exceptions, however, most notably when the later product is shown to be clinically superior to the product with exclusivity. An approved orphan drug also may qualify for an exemption from the branded prescription drug fee. Products that qualify for orphan designation may also qualify for other FDA programs that are intended to expedite the development and approval process and, as a practical matter, clinical trials for orphan products may be smaller, simply because of the smaller patient population. Nonetheless, the same approval standards apply to orphan-designated products as for other drugs.

Archexin has received orphan drug designation from the FDA for RCC, glioblastoma, ovarian cancer, stomach cancer and pancreatic cancer. RX-3117 received orphan drug designation for pancreatic cancer in September 2014.

Generic Competition. &#160; Any &#160; drug candidates approved for commercial marketing under an NDA would be subject to the provisions of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, known as the Hatch-Waxman Act. Among other things, the Hatch-Waxman Act establishes two abbreviated approval pathways for drug products that are in some way follow-on versions of already approved NDA products, including generic versions of the approved product, which may be approved under an Abbreviated New Drug Application by a showing that the generic product is the &#8220;same as&#8221; the approved product in key respects. Those abbreviated approval pathways generally are available, however, after expiration of certain periods of regulatory exclusivity and/or extended patent protection, which the Hatch-Waxman Act also provides. These protections include: (1) five years of regulatory exclusivity for a new chemical entity (generally, the first approval of a product containing a particular active moiety), during which an application for a follow-on product cannot be accepted for review; (2) three years of exclusivity for the approval of an NDA or supplemental NDA that contains data from new clinical investigations that were necessary for approval, during which the follow-on product may not receive final approval; and (3) up to five years&#8217; extension of the term of a patent covering a drug that contains an active ingredient not previously approved. The Hatch-Waxman Act also provides a means for the sponsor of an already approved product to act before approval of the follow-on product to sue to protect patents claiming the drug substance, drug product, or an approved method of using the drug. The laws of other key markets likewise create both opportunities for exclusivity periods and patent protections and the possibility of generic competition once such periods or protections have either expired or have been successfully challenged by generic entrants.

&#160;

Post-Approval Regulation

Once approved, products are subject to continuing extensive regulation by the FDA. If ongoing regulatory requirements are not met, or if safety problems occur after a product reaches market, the FDA may take actions to change the conditions under which the product is marketed, including suspending or even withdrawing approval. In addition to FDA regulation, the healthcare industry, and therefore our business, is also subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign regulation.

Good Manufacturing Practices. &#160; Companies engaged in manufacturing drug products or their components must comply with applicable current Good Manufacturing Practice (&#8220;cGMP&#8221;) requirements, which include requirements regarding organization and training of personnel, building and facilities, equipment, control of components and drug product containers, closures, production and process controls, packaging and labeling controls, holding and distribution, laboratory controls and records and reports. The FDA inspects equipment, facilities and manufacturing processes before approval and conducts periodic re-inspections after approval. Failure to comply with applicable cGMP requirements or the conditions of the product&#8217;s approval may lead the FDA to take administrative enforcement action. Although we periodically monitor the FDA compliance of the third parties on which we rely for manufacturing our drug products, we cannot be certain that our present or future third-party manufacturers will consistently comply with cGMP or other applicable FDA regulatory requirements.

Sales and Marketing . Once a product is approved, its advertising, promotion and marketing will be subject to close regulation, including with regard to promotion to healthcare practitioners, direct-to-consumer advertising, communications regarding unapproved uses, industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities and promotional activities involving the internet. In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, state and federal fraud and abuse laws have been applied to restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical industry in recent years. Some of the pertinent laws have not been definitively interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. In addition, these laws and their interpretations are subject to change.

Other Requirements . Companies that manufacture or distribute drug products pursuant to approved NDAs must meet numerous other regulatory requirements, including adverse event reporting, submission of periodic reports, and record-keeping obligations

Fraud and Abuse Laws. &#160; At such time as we market, sell and distribute any products for which we obtain marketing approval, it is possible that our business activities could be subject to scrutiny and enforcement under one or more federal or state health care fraud and abuse laws and regulations, which could affect our ability to operate our business. These restrictions under applicable federal and state health care fraud and abuse laws and regulations that may affect our ability to operate include:

&#160; &#183;

The federal Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits, among other things, knowingly or willingly offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward the purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease or order of any health care items or service for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, by federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical companies on one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Further, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, together the Affordable Care Act, clarified among other things that liability may be established under the federal Anti-Kickback Law without proving actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the Affordable Care Act amended the Social Security Act to provide that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Law constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal civil False Claims Act. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors to the federal Anti-Kickback Law protecting certain common business arrangements and activities from prosecution or regulatory sanctions, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that do not fit squarely within an exemption or safe harbor, or for which no exception or safe harbor is available, may be subject to scrutiny;

&#160;

&#160; &#183;

The federal civil False Claims Act, which prohibits, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment of government funds or knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used, a false record or statement material to an obligation to pay money to the government or knowingly concealing or knowingly and improperly avoiding, decreasing or concealing an obligation to pay money to the federal government. Many pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been investigated and have reached substantial financial settlements with the federal government under the civil False Claims Act for a variety of alleged improper marketing activities, including: providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; providing sham consulting fees, grants, free travel and other benefits to physicians to induce them to prescribe the company&#8217;s products; and inflating prices reported to private price publication services, which are used to set drug payment rates under government healthcare programs. In addition, in recent years the government has pursued civil False Claims Act cases against a number of pharmaceutical companies for causing false claims to be submitted as a result of the marketing of their products for unapproved, and thus non-reimbursable, uses. Pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies also are subject to other federal false claim laws, including, among others, federal criminal healthcare fraud and false statement statutes that extend to non-government health benefit programs;

&#160; &#183;

Analogous state laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to items or services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Some state laws also require pharmaceutical companies to report expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products and to report gifts and payments to certain healthcare providers in the states. Other states prohibit providing meals to prescribers or other marketing related activities. In addition, California, Connecticut, Nevada and Massachusetts require pharmaceutical companies to implement compliance programs or marketing codes of conduct.

&#160; &#183;

The federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act, being implemented as the Open Payments Program, requires certain pharmaceutical manufacturers to engage in extensive tracking of payments and other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, and to submit such data to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (&#8220;CMS&#8221;), which will then make all of this data publicly available on the CMS website. Pharmaceutical manufacturers with products for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the State Children&#8217;s Health Insurance Program are required to track reportable payments and must submit a report to CMS on or before the 90th day of each calendar year disclosing reportable payments made in the previous calendar year. Failure to comply with the reporting obligations may result in civil monetary penalties;

&#160;

&#160; &#183;

The federal Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1997 and other similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from providing money or anything of value to officials of foreign governments, foreign political parties, or international organizations with the intent to obtain or retain business or seek a business advantage. Recently, there has been a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity by U.S. regulators, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the Department of Justice and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;). Violations of United States or foreign laws or regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, interruptions of business, loss of supplier, vendor or other third-party relationships, termination of necessary licenses and permits and other legal or equitable sanctions. Other internal or government investigations or legal or regulatory proceedings, including lawsuits brought by private litigants, may also follow as a consequence.

Violations of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations are punishable by significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines and exclusion from government-funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, the risks cannot be entirely eliminated. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security and fraud laws may prove costly.

Privacy Laws . We are also subject to laws and regulations covering data privacy and the protection of health-related and other personal information. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing focus on privacy and data protection issues which may affect our business, including recently enacted laws in all jurisdictions where we operate. Numerous federal and state laws, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. In addition, if we successfully commercialize our drug candidates, we may obtain patient health information from healthcare providers who prescribe our products and research institutions we collaborate with, and they are subject to privacy and security requirements under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (&#8220;HIPAA&#8221;). Although we are not directly subject to HIPAA other than with respect to providing certain employee benefits, we could potentially be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain or disclose individually identifiable health information maintained by a HIPAA-covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA.

Coverage and Reimbursement

Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of any drug candidates for which we may obtain regulatory approval. The regulations that govern marketing approvals, pricing and reimbursement for new drug products vary widely from country to country. Current and future legislation may significantly change the approval requirements in ways that could involve additional costs and cause delays in obtaining approvals. Some countries require approval of the sale price of a drug before it can be marketed. In many countries, the pricing review period begins after marketing or product licensing approval is granted. In some foreign markets, prescription pharmaceutical pricing remains subject to continuing governmental control even after initial approval is granted. As a result, we might obtain marketing approval for a product in a particular country, but then be subject to price regulations that delay our commercial launch of the product, possibly for lengthy time periods, which could negatively impact the revenues we are able to generate from the sale of the product in that particular country. Adverse pricing limitations may hinder our ability to recoup our investment in one or more product candidates even if our product candidates obtain marketing approval.

&#160;

Our ability to commercialize any products successfully also will depend in part on the extent to which coverage and adequate reimbursement for these products and related treatments will be available in a timely manner from government third-party payors, including government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, commercial health insurers and managed care organizations. Government authorities and other third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, determine which medications they will cover and establish reimbursement levels. Third-party payors may limit coverage to specific products on an approved list, or formulary, which might not include all of the FDA approved products for a particular indication. The process for determining whether a payor will provide coverage for a product may be separate from the process for setting the price or reimbursement rate that the payor will pay for the product once coverage is approved.

A primary trend in the U.S. healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. Government healthcare programs and other third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services and examining the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, in addition to their safety and efficacy, and have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. Increasingly, third-party payors are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. We cannot be sure that coverage and reimbursement will be available promptly or at all for any product that we commercialize and, if reimbursement is available, what the level of reimbursement will be. Moreover, eligibility for coverage and reimbursement does not imply that any drug will be paid for in all cases. Limited coverage may impact the demand for, or the price of, any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. If coverage and reimbursement are not available or reimbursement is available only to limited levels, we may not successfully commercialize any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval.

Payors also are increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates, such as average sales price (&#8220;ASP&#8221;), average manufacturer price (&#8220;AMP&#8221;) and actual acquisition cost. The existing data for reimbursement based on these metrics is relatively limited, although certain states have begun to survey acquisition cost data for the purpose of setting Medicaid reimbursement rates. CMS surveys and publishes retail community pharmacy acquisition cost information in the form of National Average Drug Acquisition Cost (&#8220;NADAC&#8221;) files to provide state Medicaid agencies with a basis of comparison for their own reimbursement and pricing methodologies and rates. It may be difficult to project the impact of these evolving reimbursement mechanics on the willingness of payors to cover our products for which we receive regulatory approval.

If we successfully commercialize any of our products, we may participate in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. Participation is required for federal funds to be available for our products under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. Under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, we would be required to pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for our covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state Medicaid program as a condition of having federal funds being made available to the states for our drugs under Medicaid and Part B of the Medicare program.

Federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program also participate in the Public Health Service&#8217;s 340B drug pricing program in order for federal funds to be available for the manufacturer&#8217;s drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. The 340B drug pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340B &#8220;ceiling price&#8221; for the manufacturer&#8217;s covered outpatient drugs. These 340B covered entities include a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the Public Health Service, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of low-income patients.

&#160;

In addition, in order to be eligible to have its products paid for with federal funds under the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs and purchased by certain federal agencies and grantees, a manufacturer also must participate in the Department of Veterans Affairs Federal Supply Schedule (&#8220;FSS&#8221;), pricing program, established by Section 603 of the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 (the &#8220;VHCA&#8221;). Under this program, the manufacturer is obligated to make its innovator and single source products available for procurement on an FSS contract and charge a price to four federal agencies, Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense (&#8220;DoD&#8221;), Public Health Service, and Coast Guard, that is no higher than the statutory Federal Ceiling Price. Moreover, pursuant to regulations issued by the DoD. TRICARE Management Activity (&#8220;TMA&#8221;), now the Defense Health Agency (&#8220;DHA&#8221;), to implement Section 703 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, manufacturers are required to provide rebates on utilization of their innovator and single source products that are dispensed to TRICARE beneficiaries by TRICARE network retail pharmacies. The formula for determining the rebate is established in the regulations and is based on the difference between the annual non-federal average manufacturer price and the Federal Ceiling Price (these price points are required to be calculated by us under the VHCA). The requirements under the 340B, FSS, and TRICARE programs could reduce the revenue we may generate from any products that are commercialized in the future and could adversely affect our business and operating results.

There may be significant delays in obtaining coverage and reimbursement for newly approved drugs, and coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which the drug is approved by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities. Moreover, eligibility for coverage and reimbursement does not imply that a drug will be paid for in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution. Interim reimbursement levels for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may only be temporary. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on reimbursement levels already set for lower cost drugs and may be incorporated into existing payments for other services. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government healthcare programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. Limited coverage may impact the demand for, or the price of, any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. Third-party payors also may seek additional clinical evidence, including expensive pharmacoeconomic studies, beyond the data required to obtain marketing approval, demonstrating clinical benefits and value in specific patient populations, before covering our products for those patients. If reimbursement is available only for limited indications, we may not be able to successfully commercialize any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and profitable reimbursement rates from both government-funded and private payors for any approved products that we develop could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to commercialize products and our overall financial condition.

United States Healthcare Reform

The United States and many foreign jurisdictions have enacted or proposed legislative and regulatory changes affecting the healthcare system that could prevent or delay marketing approval of our product candidates, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability to profitably sell any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. The United States government, state legislatures and foreign governments also have shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs to limit the growth of government-paid healthcare costs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products for branded prescription drugs.

&#160;

In recent years, Congress has considered reductions in Medicare reimbursement levels for drugs administered by physicians. CMS, the agency that administers the Medicare and Medicaid programs, also has authority to revise reimbursement rates and to implement coverage restrictions for some drugs. Cost reduction initiatives and changes in coverage implemented through legislation or regulation could decrease utilization of and reimbursement for any approved products, which in turn would affect the price we can receive for those products. While Medicare regulations apply only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. Therefore, any reduction in reimbursement that results from federal legislation or regulation may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors.

In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Affordable Care Act. This law substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. The Affordable Care Act is intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against healthcare fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, and impose additional health policy reforms. Among other things, the Affordable Care Act expanded manufacturers&#8217; rebate liability under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program by increasing the minimum Medicaid rebate for both branded and generic drugs, expanded the 340B program, and revised the definition of AMP, which could increase the amount of Medicaid drug rebates manufacturers are required to pay to states. The legislation also extended Medicaid drug rebates, previously due only on fee-for-service Medicaid utilization, to include the utilization of Medicaid managed care organizations as well and created an alternative rebate formula for certain new formulations of certain existing products that is intended to increase the amount of rebates due on those drugs. On February 1, 2016, CMS issued final regulations to implement the changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate program under the Affordable Care Act. These regulations become effective on April 1, 2016. It appears likely that the Affordable Care Act will continue the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs.

&#160; 

The Affordable Care Act requires pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded prescription drugs to pay a branded prescription drug fee to the federal government. Each individual pharmaceutical manufacturer pays a prorated share of the branded prescription drug fee of $3.0 billion in 2016, based on the dollar value of its branded prescription drug sales to certain federal programs identified in the law. Furthermore, the new law requires manufacturers to provide a 50% discount off the negotiated price of prescriptions filled by beneficiaries in the Medicare Part D coverage gap, referred to as the &#8220;donut hole.&#8221;

The Affordable Care Act also expanded the Public Health Service&#8217;s 340B drug pricing discount program. As noted above, the 340B drug pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340B &#8220;ceiling price&#8221; for the manufacturer&#8217;s covered outpatient drugs. The Affordable Care Act expanded the 340B program to include additional types of covered entities: certain free-standing cancer hospitals, critical access hospitals, rural referral centers and sole community hospitals, each as defined by the Affordable Care Act. The Affordable Care Act exempts &#8220;orphan drugs&#8221;&#8212;those designated under section 526 of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act&#8212;from the ceiling price requirements for these newly-eligible entities. Because the 340B ceiling price is determined based on AMP and Medicaid drug rebate data, the revisions to the Medicaid rebate formula and AMP definition described above could cause the required 340B discounts to increase.

In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. For example, recent legislative enactments have resulted in Medicare payments being subject to a two percent reduction, referred to as sequestration, until 2025. Continuation of sequestration or enactment of other reductions in Medicare reimbursement for drugs could affect our ability to achieve a profit on any candidate products that are approved for marketing.

&#160;

We expect that the Affordable Care Act, as well as other healthcare reform measures that have and may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and in additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product and could seriously harm our future revenues. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid, or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability or commercialize our products.

Foreign Regulation

In addition to regulations in the United States, we will be subject to a number of significant regulations in other jurisdictions regarding clinical trials, approval, manufacturing, marketing and promotion and safety reporting. These requirements and restrictions vary from country to country, but in many instances are similar to the United States requirements, and failure to comply with them could have the same negative effects as noncompliance in the United States.

Sales and Marketing 

We do not currently have the sales and marketing infrastructure in place that would be necessary to sell and market products. As our drug candidates progress in clinical trials, we may build the commercial infrastructure that would be needed to successfully market and sell any successful drug candidate. For drug candidates that may require larger clinical trials or sales efforts, we intend to establish strategic alliances and partnerships with large pharmaceutical companies during the development process.

Research Technologies

Our research technologies are focused on our proprietary multi-target aimed ligands platform and nano-based drug delivery, which are described further below. For a discussion of collaboration arrangements pursuant to which we obtain research and development services from universities, research institutions and other organizations, see &#8220;Collaboration and License Agreements&#8221; in this Item 1.

The Inhibitors of Multi-Expression Signals (TIMES)

TIMES is our platform for discovering ligands, which are molecules coordinated to a central atom or molecule in a larger chemical complex, that target multi-expression signals. Because cancer is a complex disease caused by multiple factors as well as genetic modifications, cancer treatment involves a combination of drugs with different mechanisms of action, which may result in compounding the degree and extent of toxicities to which a patient is exposed. TIMES permits us to control multiple targets important for cancer proliferation with a single agent. In doing so, we utilize a proprietary, genomics-based integrated, gene expression system to identify potentially important targets that control multiple genes or signaling events in cancer cells.

3-D Gateway of Ligand Discovery (3-D GOLD)

3-D GOLD is a drug discovery platform that integrates three-dimensional (&#8220;3D&#8221;) molecular modeling, databases of chemicals and proteins and ligand filtering and generation. The chemical database contains 3D structures of approximately seven million compounds. Our proprietary docking tools quantitative structure-activity relationship tool for innovative discovery are parts of the platform. Ligand filtering highlights similarities in pharmacophore and 3D fingerprinting, while ligand generation helps optimize the identification of such similarities.

&#160;

Nano-medicine Drug Delivery

We have developed unique proprietary drug delivery nano-systems that we believe may increase the availability of a drug at the disease site, minimize adverse reactions, and provide longer duration of action. We are currently testing multiple nanoliposomal- and nanopolymer-based anti-cancer drugs. RX-21101 is an investigational nanoliposomal-based drug.

Manufacturing and Distribution

We have no experience in drug formulation or manufacturing, and we lack the resources and expertise to formulate or manufacture our own drug candidates internally. Therefore, we rely on third-party expertise to support us in this area. We have entered into contracts with third-party manufacturers to manufacture, supply, store and distribute supplies of our drug candidates for our clinical trials. If any of our drug candidates receive FDA approval, we expect to rely on third-party contractors to manufacture our drugs. W e have no current plans to build internal manufacturing capacity for any product, and we have no long-term supply arrangements.

Intellectual Property

We generally seek proprietary patent and intellectual property (&#8220;IP&#8221;) protection for our drug candidates, processes, and other know-how. In addition to patent protection, we rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities to develop and safeguard and maintain our IP.

&#160;

We hold U.S. and foreign patents for our drug candidates that expire from 2020 to 2030. We hold U.S. patents for Archexin, RX-3117 and Supinoxin. We also hold multiple foreign patents for Archexin, RX-3117, and Supinoxin.

&#160;

In 2015, we were granted a U.S. patent from the United States Patent and Trademark Office for claims related to the synthesis of our novel anti-cancer investigational drug candidate, RX-3117. Additional U.S. and foreign patent applications related to Archexin, RX-3117, Supinoxin, and RX-21101 are pending.

&#160;

Collaboration and License Arrangements

We have numerous collaborative research and development relationships with universities, research institutions pharmaceutical companies and other organizations.

The University of Maryland Baltimore (&#8220;UMB&#8221;)

In July 2013, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with UMB for a novel drug delivery platform, Nano-Polymer-Drug Conjugate Systems. This platform combines existing chemotherapeutic agents with a proprietary polymer carrier that contains a signaling moiety to direct the agents into a tumor. RX-21101 is our first drug candidate utilizing this platform and is a conjugated form of docetaxel, a common chemotherapy agent. This agreement requires us to make payments to UMB if RX-21101 or any other products developed from the licensed delivery platform achieve development milestones.

&#160;

The Ohio State University

In October 2013, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with the Ohio State Innovation Foundation, an affiliate of The Ohio State University, for a novel oligonucleotide drug delivery platform, Lipid-Coated Albumin Nanoparticle (&#8220;LCAN&#8221;). The LCAN platform incorporates both cationic lipid and cationized albumin that can form an electrostatic complex with oligonucleotides and be co-encapsulated by lipids. The agreement requires us to make payments to the Ohio State Innovation Foundation if any products from the licensed delivery platform achieve development milestones.

Korea Research Institute of Chemical Technology (&#8220;KRICT&#8221;)

In June 2009, we entered into a license agreement with KRICT to acquire all intellectual property related to quinoxaline-piperazine derivatives, which includes Supinoxin. We paid an initial license fee of $100,000 in July 2009, and will pay $1,000,000 to KRICT upon marketing approval from the FDA for the first commercial product stemming from the agreement.

&#160; 

Rexgene Biotech Co., Ltd. (&#8220;Rexgene&#8221;)

In February 2003, we entered into a research collaboration agreement with Rexgene, which is engaged in the development of pharmaceutical products in Asia. Rexgene has agreed to assist us with the research, development and clinical trials necessary for registration of Archexin in Asia. Under the agreement, Rexgene has exclusive rights to license, sublicense, make, have made, use, sell and import Archexin in Asia. In accordance with the agreement, Rexgene paid us a one-time fee of $1,500,000 in 2003. Rexgene also agreed to pay us a royalty fee of 3% of net sales of licensed products related to Archexin in all countries in Asia by Rexgene or any sublicensee of Rexgene.

&#160; 

The agreement expires upon the last to expire of all U.S. and foreign patents presently or in the future issued that cover Archexin, or, if no licensed patent is issued, within 20 years from the date of execution of the agreement. A breach of the agreement by either party give the non-breaching party the right to terminate the agreement upon 90 days written notice of termination specifying the obligations breached, provided that within said 90 days the breaching party does not remedy the breach.

Total Research and Development Costs

We have incurred research and development costs of $12,148,226, $7,015,901 and $3,253,139 for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 respectively. Research and development costs primarily consist of clinical trials and pre-clinical development costs, as well as payroll costs for research and development personnel.

Employees

We currently have 20 full-time employees, all of whom are based either at our Rockville, Maryland office or our Gaithersburg, Maryland lab facility. Our employees are not covered by any collective bargaining agreement and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe our relationships with our employees are satisfactory.

Available Information

&#160;

Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;), we are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Any document we file with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at (800) SEC-0330 for further information about the public reference room. The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

&#160;

We make available, free of charge, on our website at www.rexahn.com our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments thereto, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Investors are encouraged to access these reports and the other information about our business on our website. Information found on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this &#8220;Annual Report&#8221;). We will also provide copies of this Annual Report, free of charge, upon written request to the Investor Relations Department at our main address, 15245 Shady Grove Road, Suite 455, Rockville MD, 20850.

Also posted on our website, and available in print upon written request of any shareholder to our Investor Relations Department, are the charters of the standing committees of our Board.

&#160;

