 Item 1. Business 

&#160; References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to "Bunge Limited," "Bunge," "the Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer to Bunge Limited and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise indicates. 

Business Overview 

We are a leading global agribusiness and food company with integrated operations that stretch from the farm field to consumer foods. We believe we are a leading: 

&#149; global oilseed processor and producer of vegetable oils and protein meals, based on processing capacity; &#149; global grain processor; &#149; seller of packaged vegetable oils worldwide, based on sales; &#149; producer and seller of wheat flours and bakery mixes, dry milled corn products and milled rice products in North and South America based on volume; and &#149; producer of sugar and ethanol in Brazil and global trader and merchandiser of sugar, based on volume. We conduct our operations in five segments: Agribusiness, Edible Oil Products, Milling Products, Sugar and Bioenergy and Fertilizer. We refer to the Edible Oil and Milling Products segments collectively as our Food and Ingredients businesses. Our strategy is to profitably grow our position in our core Agribusiness grain and oilseed value chains, capitalizing on our key origination, logistics, processing and risk management competencies while pursuing operational excellence. We also are focused on growing our value added Food &#38; Ingredients businesses so that over time they represent a more significant percentage of our earnings. 

Our Agribusiness segment is an integrated, global business principally involved in the purchase, storage, transport, processing and sale of agricultural commodities and commodity products. Our Agribusiness operations and assets are located in North and South America, Europe and Asia-Pacific, and we have merchandising and distribution offices throughout the world. 

Our Food and Ingredients businesses, which consist of two reportable business segments: Edible Oil Products and Milling Products, include businesses that produce and sell edible oil based products, including vegetable oils, shortenings, margarines and mayonnaise and milled grain products such as wheat flours, bakery mixes, corn-based products and rice. The operations and assets of our Edible Oil Products segment are located in North and South America, Europe and Asia-Pacific and the operations and assets of our Milling Products segment are located in North and South America. 

Our Sugar and Bioenergy segment produces and sells sugar and ethanol derived from sugarcane, as well as energy derived from the sugar and ethanol production process, through our operations in Brazil. Our operations in this segment also include global trading and merchandising of sugar and ethanol. 

Our Fertilizer segment is involved in producing, blending and distributing fertilizer products for the agricultural industry in South America, with production and blending assets and operations in Argentina and port facilities in Brazil and Argentina. 

History and Corporate Information 

Bunge Limited is a limited liability company formed under the laws of Bermuda. We are registered with the Registrar of Companies in Bermuda under registration number EC20791. We trace our history back to 1818 when we were founded as a trading company in Amsterdam, The Netherlands. We are a holding company, and substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. Our principal executive offices and corporate headquarters are located at 50 Main Street, White Plains, New York, 10606, United States of America and our telephone number is (914) 684-2800. Our registered office is located at 2 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 11, Bermuda. 

2015 Summary Operating Highlights &#151;In our Agribusiness segment in 2015, we continued to expand our network of integrated assets. In Canada, we formed a joint venture, G3 Global Grain Group ("G3") to expand our Canadian grain business. We upgraded and expanded existing port terminals in Ukraine and the U.S., as well as progressed on the construction of oilseed processing plants in Ukraine and in Asia-Pacific. In our Food and Ingredients businesses, we completed the acquisitions of Moinho Pacifico, a leading wheat flour miller in Brazil, Whole Harvest Foods, a U.S. refiner and packager of cooking oils and Heartland Harvest, a U.S. producer of die cut pellets made from a variety of starches used to make products for the snack food industry. We also made progress on the construction of a new wheat mill in Rio de Janeiro state, Brazil. In our Sugar and Bioenergy segment, our sugarcane milling operations benefitted from improved market conditions, as well as lower costs and greater efficiency due to our performance improvement initiatives. 

Agribusiness 

Overview &#151;Our Agribusiness segment is an integrated, global business involved in the purchase, storage, transport, processing and sale of agricultural commodities and commodity products while managing risk across various product lines. The principal agricultural commodities that we handle in this segment are oilseeds, primarily soybeans, rapeseed, canola and sunflower seed, and grains, primarily wheat and corn. We process oilseeds into vegetable oils and protein meals, principally for the food, animal feed and biodiesel industries, through a global network of facilities. Our footprint is well balanced, with approximately 36% of our processing capacity located in South America, 29% in North America, 20% in Europe and 15% in Asia-Pacific. 

Customers &#151;We sell agricultural commodities and processed commodity products to customers throughout the world. The principal purchasers of our oilseeds, grains and oilseed meal are animal feed manufacturers, livestock producers, wheat and corn millers and other oilseed processors. As a result, our agribusiness operations generally benefit from global demand for protein, primarily for poultry and pork products. The principal purchasers of the unrefined vegetable oils produced in this segment are our own Food and Ingredients businesses and third-party edible oil processing companies, which use these oils as raw materials in the production of edible oil products for the food service, food processor and retail markets. In addition, we sell oil products for various non-food uses, including industrial applications and the production of biodiesel. 

Distribution and Logistics &#151;We have developed an extensive global logistics network to transport our products, including trucks, railcars, river barges and ocean freight vessels. Typically, we either lease the transportation assets or contract with third parties for these services. To better serve our customer base and develop our global distribution and logistics capabilities, we own or operate either directly or through joint venture arrangements, various port terminal facilities globally, including in Brazil, Argentina, the United States, Canada, Russia, Ukraine, Poland, Vietnam and Australia. 

Financial Services and Activities &#151;We also offer various financial services, principally trade structured finance and financial risk management services for customers and other third parties. Our trade structured finance operations leverage our international trade flows to generate trade finance 

derived liquidity in emerging markets for customers and other third parties. Our financial risk management services include structuring and marketing over-the-counter ("OTC") risk management products to enable agricultural producers and end users of commodities to manage their commodity price risk exposures. Through our Financial Services Group we also engage in proprietary trading of foreign exchange and other financial instruments. Additionally, in Brazil, we provide financing services to farmers from whom we purchase soybeans and other agricultural commodities. Our farmer financing activities are an integral part of our grain and oilseed origination activities as they help assure the annual supply of raw materials for our Brazilian agribusiness operations. 

Other &#151;We have minority interests in biodiesel producers in Europe and South America. Additionally, we operate three animal feed mills in China. These businesses are complementary to our core Agribusiness operations as in each case we supply some of the raw materials (crude vegetable oil and soybean meal) used in their production processes. 

Raw Materials &#151;We purchase oilseeds and grains either directly from farmers or indirectly through intermediaries. Although the availability and price of agricultural commodities may, in any given year, be affected by unpredictable factors such as weather, government programs and policies and farmer planting decisions, our operations in major crop growing regions globally have enabled us to source adequate raw materials for our operational needs. 

Competition &#151;Due to their commodity nature, markets for our products are highly competitive and subject to product substitution. Competition is principally based on price, quality, product and service offerings and geographic location. Major competitors include but are not limited to: The Archer Daniels Midland Co. ("ADM"), Cargill Incorporated ("Cargill"), Louis Dreyfus Group, Glencore International PLC and large regional companies such as Wilmar International Limited and China National Cereals and Oils and Foodstuffs Corporation Limited ("COFCO") largely in Asia-Pacific. 

Food and Ingredients 

Overview &#151;Our Food and Ingredients businesses include two reportable business segments: Edible Oil Products and Milling Products. We primarily sell our products to three customer types or market channels: food processors, food service companies and retail outlets. The principal raw materials used in our Food and Ingredients businesses are various crude and further processed vegetable oils in our Edible Oil Products segment, and wheat, corn and rice in our Milling Products segment. These raw materials are agricultural commodities that we either produce or purchase from third parties. We seek to realize synergies between our Food and Ingredients and Agribusiness operations through our raw material procurement activities and co-location of industrial facilities, enabling us to benefit from being an integrated, global enterprise. 

Edible Oil Products 

Products &#151;Our edible oil products include packaged and bulk oils, shortenings, margarines, mayonnaise and other products derived from the vegetable oil refining process. We primarily use soybean, sunflower, rapeseed and canola oil that we produce in our Agribusiness segment oilseed processing operations as raw materials in this business. We are a leading seller of packaged vegetable oils worldwide, based on sales. We have edible oil refining and packaging facilities in North America, South America, Europe and Asia-Pacific. 

In Brazil, our retail edible oil brands include Soya , the leading packaged vegetable oil brand, as well as Primor and Salada . We are also a leader in the Brazilian margarine market with our brands Delicia and Primor , as well as in mayonnaise with our Soya, Primor and Salada brands. In shortenings, we are a leading supplier to the food processor market. We also produce processed tomato and other staple food products, including sauces, condiments and seasonings in Brazil under several brand names. 

In the United States and Canada, we offer our customers high quality solutions to fit their goals, such as reducing trans-fats or lowering saturated fats. Our products include Nutra-Clear NT Ultra , a high oleic canola oil that is trans-fat free and low in saturated fats and Pro-Formance NT , a high oleic soybean oil that is highly stable and trans-fat free. We have also developed proprietary fiber addition processes that allow bakery and food processor customers to achieve significant reductions in saturated fats in shortenings. We also offer expeller pressed and physically refined oils to food service customers under the brand Whole Harvest and also produce margarines and buttery spreads, including our leading brand Country Premium , for food service, food processor and retail private label customers. 

In Europe, we are a leader in consumer packaged vegetable oils, which are sold in various geographies under brand names including Venusz, Floriol, Kujawski, Olek, Unisol, Ideal, Oleina, Maslenitsa, Oliwier, Salat and Rozumnitsa, and a leader in margarines, including our brand names Smakowita, Maslo Rosline, Masmix, Optima, Deli Reform, Keiju, Evesol, Linco, Gottgott, Suvela and Finuu. Most recently, we have introduced Optima margarine with DHA for consumers interested in adding omega-3 fatty acids to their diets. Additionally, we have introduced first cold pressed oils and spice &#38; herb enhanced products under our Deli Reform brand. 

In India, our brands include Dalda , Ginni and Chambal in edible oils; Dalda and Gagan in vanaspati; and Masterline in professional bakery fats. In China, our edible oil brand is Dou Wei Jia . 

Customers &#151;Our customers include baked goods companies, snack food producers, restaurant chains, food service distributors and other food manufacturers who use vegetable oils and shortenings as ingredients in their operations, as well as grocery chains, wholesalers, distributors and other retailers who sell to consumers under our brand names or under private labels. These customers include global and national food processors and manufacturers, many of which are leading brand owners in their product categories. 

Competition &#151;Competition is based on a number of factors, including price, raw material procurement, distribution capabilities and cost structure, brand recognition, product quality, innovation, technical support, new product introductions, composition and nutritional value and advertising and promotion. Our products may compete with widely advertised, well-known, branded products, as well as private label and customized products. In the United States and Canada, our principal competitors in the Edible Oil Products segment include ADM, Cargill, Stratas Foods LLC, Unilever NV/PLC ("Unilever") and Ventura Foods LLC. In addition, in Brazil our principal competitors also include ADM, Cargill, Imcopa, BRF S.A. and JBS S.A. In Europe, our principal competitors include ADM, Cargill, Unilever and various local companies in each country. 

Milling Products 

Products &#151;Our Milling Products segment activities include the production and sale of a variety of wheat flours and bakery mixes in Brazil and Mexico, corn-based products in the United States and Mexico derived from the corn dry milling process and milled rice products in the United States and Brazil. 

Our brands in Brazil include Suprema, Soberana, Primor and Predileta wheat flours and Gradina, and Pre-Mescla bakery premixes. Our wheat flour and bakery mix brands in Mexico include Espiga, Esponja, Francesera, Chulita, Galletera and Pastelera. Our corn milling products consist primarily of dry-milled corn meals, flours and flaking and brewer's grits, as well as soy-fortified corn meal, corn-soy blend and other similar products. As part of our corn portfolio we also sell whole grain and fiber ingredients. In the U.S., we have most recently added ancient grains, such as quinoa and millet to our portfolio. We have also introduced a range of extruded products that include die cut pellets for the snack food industry. We mill and sell bulk and packaged rice in the United States and also sell branded rice in Brazil under the Primor brand. 

Customers &#151;The primary customers for our wheat milling products are food processing, bakery and food service companies. The primary customers for our corn milling products are companies in the food processing sector, such as cereal, snack, bakery and brewing companies, as well as the U.S. Government for humanitarian assistance programs. Our rice milling business sells to customers in the food service and food processing channels, as well as for export markets. 

Competition &#151;Competition is based on a variety of factors, including price, raw material procurement, brand recognition, product quality, nutritional profile, dietary trends and distribution capabilities. In Brazil, our major competitors are Glencore, M. Dias Branco, J.Macedo and Moinho Anaconda, as well as many small regional producers. Our major competitors in North American corn milling include Cargill, Didion Milling Company, SEMO Milling, LLC and Life Line Foods, LLC. Our major competitors in our U.S. rice milling business include ADM and Farmers' Rice Cooperative. Our major competitors in Mexico include Grupo Elizondo, Molinera de M&#233;xico and Grupo Trimex. 

Sugar and Bioenergy 

Overview &#151;We are a leading, integrated producer of sugar and ethanol in Brazil, and a leading global trader and merchandiser of sugar. We own and operate eight sugarcane mills in Brazil, the world's largest producer and exporter of sugar. As of December 31, 2015, our mills had a total crushing capacity of approximately 21 million metric tons per year. Sugarcane, which is the raw material that we use to produce sugar and ethanol, is supplied by a combination of our own plantations and third-party farmers. Additionally, through cogeneration facilities at our sugarcane mills, we produce electricity from the burning of sugarcane bagasse (the fibrous portion of the sugarcane that remains after the extraction of sugarcane juice) in boilers, which enables our mills to meet their energy requirements. Any surplus electricity is sold to the local grid or other large third-party users of electricity. Our trading and merchandising operations engage in marketing and selling sugar through regional marketing offices in various locations and managing the sugar price risk for our business. 

In recent years, our sugar milling business in Brazil has faced a number of significant challenges, including adverse weather conditions which negatively affected the supply and quality of the sugarcane supplied to our mills, as well as structural challenges stemming primarily from low global sugar prices, domestic cost inflation and the Brazilian government's fuel policy which for a period of time capped gasoline prices, thereby impacting ethanol prices as well. The combination of these and other factors resulted in our decision to reduce the capital allocated to this business beginning in 2014, with future investment dedicated to agricultural and industrial maintenance and efficiency requirements. Additionally, as previously announced, we are continuing to explore alternatives to reduce our exposure to the Brazilian sugarcane industry. However, the nature and timing of any potential outcome or transaction is uncertain and cannot be predicted. 

Raw Materials &#151;Sugarcane is our principal raw material in this segment, and we both produce it and procure it through third-party supply contracts. The annual harvesting cycle in Brazil typically begins in late March/early April and ends in late November/early December. Once planted, sugarcane is harvested for five to six years, but the yield decreases with each harvest over the life cycle of the cane. As a result, after this period, old sugarcane plants are typically removed and the area is replanted. The quality and yield of the harvested cane are also affected by factors such as soil quality, topography, weather and agricultural practices. 

Our mills are supplied with sugarcane grown on approximately 326,000 hectares of land. This land represents approximately 19,000 hectares of land that we own, 211,000 hectares of land that we manage under agricultural partnership arrangements and 96,000 hectares of land farmed by third-party farmers. In 2015, approximately 62% of our total milled sugarcane came from our owned or managed plantations and 38% was purchased from third-party suppliers. Payments under the agricultural partnership agreements and third-party supply contracts are based on a formula which factors in the 

volume of sugarcane per hectare, sucrose content of the sugarcane and market prices for sugarcane, which are set by Consecana, the S&#227;o Paulo state sugarcane, sugar and ethanol council. 

Our sugarcane planting and harvesting processes are substantially mechanized. Mechanized harvesting does not require burning of the cane prior to harvesting, significantly reducing the environmental impact when compared to manual harvesting and resulting in improved soil condition. 

Logistics &#151;Harvested sugarcane is loaded onto trucks and trailers and transported to our mills. Since the sucrose content of the sugarcane begins to degrade rapidly after harvesting, we seek to minimize the time and distance between the cutting of the cane and its delivery to our mills for processing. 

Products &#151;Our mills allow us to produce ethanol, sugar and electricity, as further described below. At mills that produce both sugar and ethanol, we are able to adjust our production mix within certain capacity limits between ethanol and sugar, as well as, for certain mills, between different types of sugar (raw and crystal) and ethanol (hydrous and anhydrous). The ability to adjust our production mix allows us to respond to changes in customer demand and market prices. 

Sugar &#151;Our current maximum sugar production capacity is 5,900 metric tons per day which, in a season of 5,000 hours of milling, results in an annual maximum production capacity of approximately 1.2 million metric tons of sugar. We produce two types of sugar: very high polarity ("VHP") raw sugar and white crystal sugar. VHP sugar is similar to the raw sugar traded on major commodities exchanges, including the standard NY11 contract, and is sold almost exclusively for export. Crystal sugar is a non-refined white sugar and is principally sold domestically in Brazil. 

Ethanol &#151;Our current maximum ethanol production capacity is 6,200 cubic meters per day which, in a season of 5,000 hours of milling, results in an annual maximum production capacity of over 1.3 million cubic meters of ethanol. We produce and sell two types of ethanol: hydrous and anhydrous. Hydrous ethanol is consumed directly as a transport fuel, while anhydrous ethanol is blended with gasoline in transport fuels. 

Electricity &#151;We generate electricity from burning sugarcane bagasse in our mills. As of December 31, 2015, our total installed cogeneration capacity was approximately 322 megawatts, with 131 megawatts available for resale to third parties after supplying our mills' energy requirements, representing approximately 590,000 megawatt hours of electricity available for resale. 

Customers &#151;The sugar we produce at our mills is sold in both the Brazilian domestic and export markets. Our domestic customers are primarily in the confectionary and food processing industries. The ethanol we produce is primarily sold to customers for use in the Brazilian domestic market to meet the demand for fuel. We also export ethanol in the international market. Our sugar trading and merchandising operations purchase and sell sugar and ethanol from our own operations as well as third parties to meet international demand. 

Other &#151;We have a minority investment in a U.S. corn based ethanol production facility and a 50% interest in a joint venture that produces corn based ethanol in Argentina. We have a 49.9% interest in a joint venture with Solazyme, Inc. for the production of renewable oils, which uses sugar supplied by one of our mills as a raw material. 

Competition &#151;We compete with other sugar and ethanol producers in Brazil and internationally, and in the global market with beet sugar processors, producers of other sweeteners and other biofuels producers. The industry is highly competitive, with raw material procurement, cost structure, selling price and distribution capabilities being important competitive factors. Our major competitors in Brazil include Cosan Limited, S&#227;o Martinho S.A., LDC-SEV Bioenergia and ED&#38;F Man. Our major 

international competitors include British Sugar PLC, S&#252;dzucker AG, Cargill, Tereos Group, Sucden Group and COFCO. 

Fertilizer 

Overview &#151;Through our operations in Argentina, we produce, blend and distribute a range of NPK fertilizers, including phosphate-based liquid and solid nitrogen fertilizers. NPK refers to nitrogen (N), phosphate (P) and potassium (K), the main components of chemical fertilizers, used for crop production primarily soybeans, corn and wheat. Our operations in Argentina are closely linked to our grain origination activities as we supply fertilizer to producers who supply us with grain. We also have a 75% controlling interest in a single super phosphate production ("SSP") plant and a strategically located river port facility in Argentina. In Brazil, we supply fertilizer to farmers as part of our grain origination activities, and operate a fertilizer terminal in the Port of Santos. 

Products and Services &#151;We offer a complete fertilizer portfolio, including SSP, ammonia, urea and ammonium thiosulfate that we produce, as well as monoammonium phosphate ("MAP"), diammonium phosphate, triple supersphosphate, urea, UAN, ammonium sulfate and potassium chloride that we purchase from third parties and resell. We market our products under the Bunge brand, as well as the Solmix brand for liquid fertilizers. 

Raw Materials &#151;Our principal raw materials in this segment are concentrated phosphate rock, sulfuric acid, natural gas, ammonium nitrate and sulphur. The prices of fertilizer raw materials are typically based on international prices that reflect global supply and demand factors and global transportation and other logistics costs. Each of these fertilizer raw materials is readily available in the international market from multiple sources. 

Competition &#151;Competition is based on a number of factors, including delivered price, product offering and quality, location, access to raw materials, production efficiency and customer service, including, in some cases, customer financing terms. Our main competitors in our fertilizer operations are ASP (Agrium), YPF, Profertil, Nidera, Yara International ("Yara") and Louis Dreyfus Commodities. 

Risk Management 

Risk management is a fundamental aspect of our business. Engaging in the hedging of risk exposures and anticipating market developments are critical to protect and enhance our return on assets. As such, we are active in derivative markets for agricultural commodities, energy, ocean freight, foreign currency and interest rates. We seek to leverage the market insights that we gain through our global operations across our businesses by actively managing our physical and financial positions on a daily basis. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." 

Insurance 

In each country where we conduct business, our operations and assets are subject to varying degrees of risk and uncertainty. We insure our businesses and assets in each country in a manner that it deems appropriate for a company of our size and activities, based on an analysis of the relative risks and costs. We believe that our geographic dispersion of assets helps mitigate risk to our business from an adverse event affecting a specific facility; however, if we were to incur a significant loss or liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Operating Segments and Geographic Areas 

We have included financial information about our reportable segments and our operations by geographic area in Note 26 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements. 

Research and Development, Innovation, Patents and Licenses 

Our research and development activities are focused on developing products and improving processes that will drive growth or otherwise add value to our core business operations. In our Food and Ingredients business area, we have research and development centers located in the United States, Brazil, Poland and Hungary to develop and enhance technology and processes associated with product development. Additionally, the evolution of biotechnology has created opportunities to develop and commercialize processes related to the transformation of oilseeds, grains and other commodities. To better take advantage of related opportunities, our global innovation activities involve scouting, developing, buying, selling and/or licensing next generation technologies in food, feed and fuel. 

Our total research and development expenses were $16 million for the year 2015, $20 million for the year 2014 and for the year $19 million for 2013. As of December 31, 2015, our research and development organization consisted of 149 employees worldwide. 

We own trademarks on the majority of the brands we produce in our Food and Ingredients and Fertilizer businesses. We typically obtain long-term licenses for the remainder. We have patents covering some of our products and manufacturing processes. However, we do not consider any of these patents to be material to our business. We believe we have taken appropriate steps to either own or license all intellectual property rights that are material to carrying out our business. 

Seasonality 

In our Agribusiness segment, while there is a degree of seasonality in the growing season and procurement of our principal raw materials, such as oilseeds and grains, we typically do not experience material fluctuations in volume between the first and second half of the year since we are geographically diversified between the northern and southern hemispheres, and we sell and distribute products throughout the year. However, the first fiscal quarter of the year has generally been our weakest in terms of financial results due to the timing of the North and South American oilseed harvests as the North American harvest peaks in the third and fourth fiscal quarters and the South American harvest peaks in the second fiscal quarter, and thus our North and South American grain merchandising and oilseed processing activities are generally at lower levels during the first quarter. 

In our Food and Ingredients segments, demand for certain of our food items may be influenced by holidays and other annual events. 

We experience seasonality in our Sugar and Bioenergy segment as a result of the Brazilian sugarcane growing cycle. In the Center-South of Brazil, the sugarcane harvesting period typically begins in late March/early April and ends in late November/early December. This creates fluctuations in our sugar and ethanol inventories, which usually peak in December to cover sales between crop harvests. These factors result in earnings being weighted towards the second half of the year. This segment is also impacted by the yield development of the sugarcane crops over the course of the crop year with sugar content reaching its highest level in the middle of the crop. As a result of the above factors, there may be significant variations in our results of operations from one quarter to another. 

In our Fertilizer segment, we are subject to seasonal trends based on the South American agricultural growing cycle as farmers typically purchase the bulk of their fertilizer needs in the second half of the year. 

Government Regulation 

We are subject to a variety of laws in each of the countries in which we operate which govern various aspects of our business, including the processing, handling, storage, transport and sale of our products; risk management activities; land-use and ownership of land, including laws regulating the acquisition or leasing of rural properties by certain entities and individuals; and environmental, health and safety matters. To operate our facilities, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, licenses and approvals from governmental agencies and our facilities are subject to periodic inspection by governmental agencies. In addition, we are subject to other laws and government policies affecting the food and agriculture industries, including food and feed safety, nutritional and labeling requirements and food security policies. From time to time, agricultural production shortfalls in certain regions and growing demand for agricultural commodities for feed, food and fuel use have caused prices for relevant agricultural commodities to rise. High commodity prices and regional crop shortfalls have led, and in the future may lead, governments to impose price controls, tariffs, export restrictions and other measures designed to assure adequate domestic supplies and/or mitigate price increases in their domestic markets, as well as increase the scrutiny of competitive conditions in their markets. 

Many countries globally are using and producing biofuels as alternatives to traditional fossil fuels. Biofuels convert crops, such as sugarcane, corn, soybeans, palm, rapeseed or canola and other oilseeds, into ethanol or biodiesel to extend, enhance or substitute for fossil fuels. Production of biofuels has increased significantly in recent years in response to both periods of high fossil fuel prices and government incentives for the production of biofuels offered in many countries, including the United States, Brazil, Argentina and many European countries. Furthermore, in several countries, governmental authorities are mandating biofuels use in transport fuel at specified levels. As such, the markets for agricultural commodities used in the production of biofuels have become increasingly affected by the growth of the biofuels industry and related legislation. 

Environmental Matters 

We are subject to various environmental protection and occupational health and safety laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. Our operations may emit or release certain substances, which may be regulated or limited by applicable laws and regulations. In addition, we handle and dispose of materials and wastes classified as hazardous or toxic by one or more regulatory agencies. Our operations are also subject to laws relating to environmental licensing of facilities, restrictions on land use in certain protected areas, forestry reserve requirements, limitations on the burning of sugarcane and water use. We incur costs to comply with health, safety and environmental regulations applicable to our activities and have made and expect to make substantial capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to continue to ensure our compliance with environmental laws and regulations. However, due to our extensive operations across multiple industries and jurisdictions globally, we are exposed to the risk of claims and liabilities under environmental regulations. Violation of these laws and regulations can result in substantial fines, administrative sanctions, criminal penalties, revocations of operating permits and/or shutdowns of our facilities. 

Additionally, our business could be affected in the future by regulation or taxation of greenhouse gas emissions, or policies related to national emission reduction plans. It is difficult to assess the potential impact of any resulting regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. Potential consequences could include increased energy, transportation and raw material costs, and we may be required to make additional investments to modify our facilities, equipment and processes. As a result, the effects of additional climate change regulatory initiatives could have adverse impacts on our business and results of operations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations did not materially affect our earnings or competitive position in 2015. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 33,000 employees. Many of our employees are represented by labor unions, and their employment is governed by collective bargaining agreements. In general, we consider our employee relations to be good. 

Available Information 

Our website address is www.bunge.com. Through the "Investors: SEC Filings" section of our website, it is possible to access our periodic report filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports. These reports are made available free of charge. Also, filings made pursuant to Section 16 of the Exchange Act with the SEC by our executive officers, directors and other reporting persons with respect to our common shares are made available, free of charge, through our website. Our periodic reports and amendments and the Section 16 filings are available through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such report, amendment or filing is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

Through the "Investors: Corporate Governance" section of our website, it is possible to access copies of the charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Finance and Risk Policy Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee. Our corporate governance guidelines and our Code of Conduct are also available in this section of our website. Each of these documents is made available, free of charge, through our website. 

The foregoing information regarding our website and its content is for your convenience only. The information contained in or connected to our website is not deemed to be incorporated by reference in this report or filed with the SEC. 

In addition, you may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 and may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. The SEC website address is www.sec.gov. 

Executive Officers and Key Employees of the Company 

Set forth below is certain information concerning the executive officers and key employees of the company. 

Name 

&#160; Position Soren Schroder &#160; Chief Executive Officer Todd Bastean &#160; Chief Executive Officer, Bunge North America Deborah Borg &#160; Chief Human Resources Officer Andrew Burke &#160; Chief Financial Officer Gordon Hardie &#160; Managing Director, Food &#38; Ingredients Enrique Humanes &#160; Chief Executive Officer, Bunge Southern Cone Tommy Jensen &#160; Chief Executive Officer, Bunge Europe, Middle East &#38; Africa David Kabbes &#160; General Counsel and Managing Director, Corporate Affairs Pierre Mauger &#160; Chief Development Officer Raul Padilla &#160; Chief Executive Officer, Bunge Brazil and Managing Director, Sugar &#38; Bioenergy Brian Thomsen &#160; Managing Director, Bunge Global Agribusiness and Chief Executive Officer, Bunge Product Lines 

Soren Schroder, 54 &#151;Mr. Schroder has been our Chief Executive Officer since June 1, 2013. Prior to his current position, he was the Chief Executive Officer of Bunge North America since April 2010. Previously, he served as Vice President of Agribusiness for Bunge Europe since June 2006 and in a variety of agribusiness leadership roles at the company in the United States and Europe since joining Bunge in 2000. Prior to joining Bunge, he worked for over 15 years at Continental Grain and Cargill. Mr. Schroder is a member of Rabobank International's North American Agribusiness Advisory Board. He holds a bachelor's degree in Economics from Connecticut College. 

Todd Bastean, 49 &#151;Mr. Bastean became Chief Executive Officer, Bunge North America, in June 2013. He started his career at Bunge in 1994 and became Chief Financial Officer of Bunge North America in 2010. Before assuming that role, he served as Vice President and General Manager of Bunge North America's Milling and Biofuels business units, and as Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of its Grain and Milling business units. He also held positions in strategic planning and auditing. Prior to joining Bunge, he worked for KPMG Peat Marwick. Mr. Bastean holds a B.S. in Accounting from Western Illinois University. 

Deborah Borg, 39 &#151;Ms. Borg assumed the role of Chief Human Resources Officer in January 2016. She joined Bunge from Dow Chemical, where she served as President Dow USA, a role in which she was responsible for regional business strategy and external relationships with customers, government organizations and joint venture partners. She started her career at Dow in 2000 as Human Resources Manager for Australia / New Zealand, and went on to hold regional and business HR roles in Asia, Europe and North America. She also served as Global HR Director, Marketing and Sales, and led the Human Capital Planning and Development function for Dow focusing on talent acquisition, retention, diversity and development. Previously, Ms. Borg served in HR and talent development roles with General Motors Australia. She holds a Bachelor of Business Management in Human Resources and a Master in Training and Change Management from Victoria University, Australia. 

Andrew Burke, 60 &#151;Mr. Burke has been our Chief Financial Officer since February 2011, having served as interim Chief Financial Officer since September 2010. In addition, Mr. Burke served as our Global Operational Excellence Officer, from July 2010 to October 2013. Prior to July 2010, Mr. Burke served as Co-Chief Executive Officer of Bunge Global Agribusiness and Bunge Product Lines since November 2006. Mr. Burke joined Bunge in January 2002 as Managing Director, Soy Ingredients and New Business Development and later served as Managing Director of New Business. Mr. Burke also 

previously served as our interim Chief Financial Officer from April to July 2007. Prior to joining Bunge, Mr. Burke served as Chief Executive Officer of the U.S. subsidiary of Degussa AG. He joined Degussa in 1983, where he held a variety of finance and marketing positions, including Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of the U.S. Chemical Group. Prior to joining Degussa, Mr. Burke worked for Beecham Pharmaceuticals and was an auditor with Price Waterhouse &#38; Company. Mr. Burke is a graduate of Villanova University and earned an M.B.A. from Manhattan College. 

Gordon Hardie, 52 &#151;Mr. Hardie has served as Managing Director, Food &#38; Ingredients since July 2011. Prior to joining Bunge, Mr. Hardie founded Morningside Partners, a corporate strategy and M&#38;A advisory firm focused on the food and beverage industries in 2009. Prior to that, from 2003 to 2009, he led the Fresh Baking Division of Goodman Fielder Ltd, the leading producer of bakery brands in Australia and New Zealand, and held leadership roles at companies in a variety of international markets, including as Group General Manager, Marketing at Southcorp Wines; Vice President, Asia-Pacific, Middle East and Africa at Fosters Group International; and Regional Director, Americas &#38; Asia-Pacific at Pernod Ricard. He holds a Bachelor's degree in European Language and Psychology from the National University of Ireland, University College Cork and an M.B.A. from the University College Dublin, Michael Smurfit Graduate School of Business. 

Enrique Humanes, 56 &#151;Mr. Humanes has served as Chief Executive Officer of Bunge Argentina since February 2011 and previously served as interim Chief Executive Officer of Bunge Argentina since July 2010. He started his career at the company in 2000 as the Operations Director of Bunge Argentina. Prior to joining Bunge, he served in industrial roles at Unilever and Dow Chemical. He holds an undergraduate degree in chemical engineering from the Technology University of Rosario, a postgraduate degree in Process Management Administration from Rice University and an MBA from IDEA in Argentina. 

Tommy Jensen, 54 &#151;Mr. Jensen has served as Chief Executive Officer of Bunge Europe, Middle East and Africa ("Bunge EMEA") since May 2012 and previously served as Bunge EMEA's Chief Operating Officer, Vice President, Northern and Central Europe and Managing Director, Poland. Prior to joining Bunge in 2003, he held leadership positions at Animex S.A. in Poland, a subsidiary of Smithfield Foods, Continental Grain in Poland and Germany, and Jyske Bank A/S in Denmark. He has a Bachelor's degree in Finance from Aarhus School of Business at Aarhus University, Denmark, and has completed the Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business School. 

David Kabbes, 53 &#151;Mr. Kabbes became General Counsel and Managing Director, Corporate Affairs in February 2015 after serving as Senior Vice President, Corporate and Legal Affairs for Bunge North America since 2000, where he oversaw the legal, government and industry affairs, communications, foreign trade support and environmental functions. Prior to joining Bunge in 2000, he was Executive Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel at Purina Mills, a corporate attorney at Koch Industries, Inc., a partner at Schiff Hardin &#38; Waite and an associate at Thompson Coburn. He received a bachelor's degree in business from Quincy University and a law degree from the University of Illinois. 

Pierre Mauger, 43 &#151;Mr. Mauger has served as Chief Development Officer since September 2013. Prior to joining Bunge, Mr. Mauger was a partner at McKinsey &#38; Company, where he led the firm's agriculture service line in Europe, the Middle East and Africa from 2009 to 2013, overseeing client relationships with leading global companies in the commodity processing and trading, agrochemicals and fertilizer sectors, as well as with governments. Prior to that, he served as a partner in the firm's consumer goods practice. He joined McKinsey as an associate in 2000. Mr. Mauger previously worked as an auditor at Nestl&#233; and KPMG. He holds a B.Sc. in Economics and Business Finance from Brunel University in the United Kingdom and an M.B.A. from INSEAD. 

Raul Padilla, 60 &#151;Mr. Padilla became Chief Executive Officer of Bunge Brazil in May 2014. He has also served as Managing Director, Sugar and Bioenergy, since September 2014. Prior to that, he served as Managing Director, Bunge Global Agribusiness and Chief Executive Officer, Bunge Product Lines since July 2010. Prior to that, he was Chief Executive Officer of Bunge Argentina since 1999, having joined the company in 1997 as Commercial Director. Mr. Padilla has over 30 years of experience in the oilseed processing and grain handling industries in Argentina, beginning his career with La Plata Cereal in 1977. He has served as President of the Argentine National Oilseed Crushers Association, Vice President of the International Association of Seed Crushers and Director of the Buenos Aires Cereal Exchange and the Rosario Futures Exchange. Mr. Padilla is a graduate of the University of Buenos Aires. 

Brian Thomsen, 49 &#151;Mr. Thomsen became Managing Director, Bunge Global Agribusiness and Chief Executive Officer, Bunge Product Lines in May 2014. Previously, he served as Managing Director, Global Grains and Oilseeds Product Lines. He joined the company in 2004 as Director, Grains Product Line. Prior to Bunge, Mr. Thomsen was Managing Director, Dry Commodity Trading at Nidera, and previously served in global trading and management roles at Cargill. He started his career in 1988 at Aarhus Oil, a Danish crush and refining company, and is a graduate of the International Academy of Business in Aarhus, Denmark. 

