 ITEM 1. Business. 

History: 

Our initial business began in 2000 with the formation of FullCircle Registry, Inc (&#147;FullCircle&#148; or the &#147;Company&#148;). We were a technology-based business that provided emergency document and information retrieval services. The system was designed to allow medical personnel to quickly obtain critical information. We provided these services directly to subscribers and through strategic alliances with health care providers. 

Our Current Business: 

Our business plan is to target the acquisition of small profitable businesses with the following mission statement:

FullCircle Registry, Inc.&#146;s, mission is to provide exit capabilities for small to medium sized private profitable companies through acquisition to improve our stockholder value while leaving those companies autonomous where possible to continue to be managed by the team that founded them, and subsequently providing liquidity and increased returns for the founder(s). 

We have entered the &#147;analysis&#148; and &#147;selection&#148; phase of our M&#38;A activities and will be announcing any major activities through PR newswire releases. However, with recent rule changes we are now permitted to release news via our Announcements page on our web site: www.fullcircleregistry.com. Watch for updates on progress on our business model change on our web site. These will also be broadcast via our email blasts to those stockholders who have registered their name and email address with the company.

New Business plan and new direction 

We have established four subsidiaries. In addition to the parent company, FullCircle Registry, Inc., we have added companies in the following business sectors: distribution of medical supplies, entertainment, insurance agency and prescription assistance services. In 2010 we purchased our first property, in Indianapolis, Indiana, that contains the Georgetown 14 Digital Cinemas. Revenues for 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 were predominantly from the movie theater operations. Our medical supplies distribution company, FullCircle Medical Supplies, Inc., plans to commence operations in 2016 when funding is available. FullCircle Insurance Agency, Inc. and FullCircle Prescriptions, Inc. are currently inactive, pending national economic improvements and changes in the healthcare sector.

Funding for acquisitions, theater improvements and operating capital 

On January 3 rd , 2015 we issued a put for $100,000 to Kodiak Capital under our Stock Purchase Agreement with that firm. During the subsequent five-day pricing period our stock dropped from $.0465 to $.0035. Consequently the put price of our shares was lowered to $.00391, which provided only $47,500 in funding.

Based on this difficult situation with the market price of our stock, and the effect of possible short selling activity, we have refrained from further action regarding any additional funding requests from Kodiak Capital. Our arrangement with Kodiak Capital expired on June 30, 2015. 

In July 2015 we entered into discussions with Local Initiatives Support Corporation (&#147;LISC&#148;) for the purpose of receiving funding assistance for the business model change of our theater in Indianapolis. Additional information regarding those activities is reported under &#147;New direction business model for Georgetown 14 Cinemas,&#148; below.

FullCircle Entertainment, Inc. 

In 2010 we established FullCircle Entertainment, Inc. (&#147;FullCircle Entertainment&#148;) for the purpose of acquiring movie theaters and other entertainment venues. 

On December 31, 2010, FullCircle Entertainment purchased Georgetown 14 Cinemas, a movie theater complex property at 3898 Lafayette Road, Indianapolis, Indiana 46224. 

A summary of the Georgetown 14 acquisition follows:

&#183;

The 8-acre property purchase price was $5.5 million.

&#183;

The appraised value was $7.85 million.

&#183;

Assumed mortgage was $5,047,841 with issuance of Company stock valued at $452,159. 

&#183;

24 employees.

In January 2012 we converted all of our screens to a digital format and installed 3D capability at a cost of $790,000, which we financed with a secured loan. The digital format offers a crisper view and allows the exhibition of 3D movies on three of our screens. Two of our theaters had been previously converted to digital prior to 2012.

In 2012 we renegotiated the mortgage on the property, resulting in a reduction of 3/4 percentage point in the interest rate. In March 2013 we again renegotiated the mortgage, resulting in a further reduction of 1/4 percentage point. Our mortgage currently is currently at a 4 &#190; % interest rate. Due to the decline in movie revenues and related decline in operating cash flows, in 2015 it was difficult for us to maintain the current level of principal and interest payments. On July 31, 2015, we entered into a change in terms agreement with our lender whereby our lender agreed to modify our payment schedule from a monthly fixed principal and interest payment in the amount of $34,435 to interest only payments beginning with payment due date of June 15, 2015 thru November 15, 2015. The normal payment of principal and interest of $34,435 was to resume on December 15, 2015. Due to the continued poor movie revenues, we are currently delinquent in our mortgage payments, as payments of interest only have been made in December 2015 and the January and February months subsequent to year-end. In late 2015, the mortgage on our property was transferred to another lender, and we are in negotiations with our new lender to further revise our payment schedule so as to allow us to be in compliance with the payment provisions and avoid being delinquent on our loan obligation. 

During 2013 we increased pricing of our tickets and concessions to be in line with other competing full service digital theaters in our area; however, we remain the most competitive theater in our area.

We also developed a new web page for the Georgetown 14 Digital Cinemas allowing for a more complete patron information center. The new site is: www.georgetowncinemas.com. Our patrons can now find us on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for our weekly newsletter keeping them informed about the upcoming movies and news about our Georgetown improvements and community events.

In 2013, we began an upgrade to the Georgetown 14 Digital Cinemas, with more signage and a planned remodel of our concession and lobby areas, as well as new employee uniforms. Funding for these improvements has been difficult, but we have managed to begin the process with the assistance from major stockholders. We plan to install new furniture, which will allow a place for our patrons to meet and enjoy our enhanced concession menu, as well as enjoy our new WiFi hot spots throughout the theater. The progress has been slower than expected because of the shortage of stronger movies in for the last three years. 

We launched a gift card program as well as a Customer Rewards program. Since its inception in January 2014 more than 500 patrons have enrolled in the Customer Rewards program. This will allow us to identify the zip codes of our patrons, so that we can target specialized marketing materials and monitor our growth outside our immediate area.

We also added uniformed security from dusk to close on weekends, and increased our management compensation to be more commensurate with other local theaters. We hired a maintenance manager to maintain the theater and to improve the patron experience. 

If we are able to procure additional financing, we plan to improve our theater operations to allow us to offer:

&#183;

Free viewing of U.S. popular sporting events, such as the Major League Baseball World Series, NFL playoffs, NCAA Basketball and Football playoffs and NBA playoffs. These would be primarily marketing events to increase concession revenue.

&#183;

Viewing of popular international sporting events, to serve our local international community.

&#183;

Business meetings requiring high-speed internet upload and download capabilities

&#183;

Private party functions 

&#183;

Adult beverages and increase food selections with our menu

In 2015, nationwide theater revenues were down again compared to the preceding year, due principally to a series of poorly reviewed and disappointing movies that were released. We experienced a decline in attendance, so our ticket sale revenues are below 2014 levels.

A portion of the building housing the Georgetown Digital Cinemas also includes a grocery store space, which we lease to an independent operator. The lease was set to expire in 2014, and in March 2014 we renewed the lease to Save-A-Lot Stores, a grocery store operator, for another 7 years with three 5-year options.

Our theatre operations are under the supervision of our General Manager who is responsible for overseeing the day-to-day operations of our controls, company procedures, company policies, film scheduling, employee training and scheduling.

The majority of our revenues come from the sale of movie tickets and concessions. For the year ended December 31, 2015, box office admissions and concession sales were 84% of total revenues. We license our movies from distributors generally owned by the major studios. In 2015 our film rental expense constituted 58% of our ticket sales, leaving only 42% for overhead and operating expenses.

Most of the tickets we sell are sold at our theatre box offices immediately before the start of a film. Patrons can also buy tickets in advance on the Internet. 

Our strategy emphasizes quick and efficient service in our concession stand built around a limited menu, primarily focused on higher margin items such as popcorn, soft drinks, flavored popcorn, candy, frozen drinks, hot dogs, pizza and pretzels. Our concession inventory is purchased from a local supplier. We are attempting to upgrade to digital menu boards. We believe that the installation of these menu boards will enhance customer service and may lead to incremental concessions revenue. 

We plan to expand our food and beverage menus, including the sale of alcoholic beverages in the future, as well as a rollout of other theatre dining options, if funding is available.

Typically, movie studios release films with the highest expected revenues during the summer and the holiday period between Thanksgiving and Christmas, causing seasonal fluctuations in revenues. Our slow season is January through March, usually because of weather, and the period August through October.

We believe that it is important to build patron loyalty through enhancing the benefits received by attending our theatre. We are finalizing our loyalty program where members earn points based on admissions and concessions purchases. Upon achieving designated point thresholds, members are eligible for specified awards, such as admission tickets, concession items and theater logo shirts and hats.

We obtain licenses to exhibit films by using a booking agent to negotiate directly with film distributors. Prior to negotiating for a film license, the booking agent evaluates the prospects for upcoming films, applying criteria such as cast, director, plot, and performance of similar films, estimated film rental costs and expected revenues, as well as the demographics of our market area. Because we only license a portion of newly released first-run films, our success in licensing depends greatly upon the availability of commercially popular motion pictures, and the preferences of patrons in our market and insight into trends in those preferences. 

Negative economic conditions have adversely affected our business and financial results by reducing amounts consumers spend from expendable dollars on attending movies and purchasing concessions.

Our business depends on consumers voluntarily spending discretionary funds on leisure activities. Movie theatre attendance and concessions sales may be affected by prolonged negative trends in the general economy that adversely affect consumer spending. 

Our customers may have less money for discretionary purchases because of negative economic conditions such as job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, sharply falling home prices, reduced availability of credit and other matters, resulting in a decrease in consumer spending or causing consumers to shift their spending to alternative forms of entertainment. This may affect the demand for movies or severely impact the motion picture production industry such that our business and operations could be adversely affected.

In 2014 and 2015 we have invested over $200,000 in upgrades to the building in Indianapolis. More work is necessary but we believe that the facility is in better condition than during recent years. Most of the funding for our upgrade work is being supplied by our largest shareholders with 15% notes.

New direction business model for Georgetown 14 Cinemas 

The cost of renting movies from studios and filmmakers continues to increase. In addition, the quantity of major new releases each week has declined. In general, we do not receive the best first run movies anymore. 

On the other hand, the casual restaurant business has been on the upswing in recent years, and consumer demand for restaurant meals has increased.

Because of these trends, we have been attempting to refinance the theater or acquire other funding to finance the conversion of the theater into an &#147;In-Theater Dining&#148; experience and replace the stadium seating with recliner lounge seating. As a result of changes in Hollywood&#146;s direction and the popularity of Netflix and other movie aftermarket activity, the theater business model is changing, and many theater companies are starting to convert to enhanced food and beverage services. In addition, many theaters are transforming their auditoriums to luxury reclining seating. Fortunately, as of this date only two theaters in our marketplace have converted. Studio Movie Grill converted a facility 10 miles from us to full in-dining services and Circle Center has converted to just luxury recliners. We believe that we need to move quickly to protect our investment.

We believe we have an ideal theater footprint for us to do a complete conversion, including a nice area for a lounge and a lobby large enough to install a food or beverage destination area as well. The plan would be to convert the smallest auditorium into a kitchen. In our phase one plans we would convert four auditoriums into luxury recliner seating and begin serving an expanded menu and beverages. In phase two more theaters would be converted as well.

Because of the improved performance in the casual restaurant sector in past years, we believe that this trend will continue. Economically, if a person and their spouse want to do a dinner and a movie it takes about four hours to do and if they have children the babysitting cost is very high. Combining the theater and the restaurant reduces the time to about two hours and becomes more economically attractive.

Since October 2014 we have been working with agencies that are involved in economic development in the depressed areas of Indianapolis. We have had two meetings with representatives of the Mayor of Indianapolis, and a meeting with Mayor Ballard on July 28 th . The Mayor&#146;s office introduced us to Local Initiatives Support Corporation (&#147;LISC&#148;), which provides grants and financing for redevelopment of urban commercial properties and we are requesting a grant to provide the funding to convert the theater. Indianapolis has expressed interest in improving the Georgetown 14 area, and members of the city&#146;s economic development staff are assisting us in our campaign. Our applications for the conversion grant and the refinancing of the property have been submitted. 

The area has been economically damaged by the problems with the Lafayette Square Mall, adjacent to us, along with the recession. Currently, Lafayette Square Mall is less than 50% occupied. LISC is interested in helping the area to improve the business climate and begin a recovery. Another mall area, Lafayette Shoppes, which is adjacent to our property, has also experienced a decline in tenants. Currently that center&#146;s shops are only 50% occupied. 

Among other activities, we have been engaged in a property tax appeal since May 2012 to correct our valuations, back to 2011. In late August we made a presentation to the Tax Review Board of Marion County for the purpose of evaluation of our historical assessments and taxes on the theater property. We won this appeal and we have received credits of $190,000 dating back to the assessments in 2011. We have engaged in a payment plan to clear the remaining property tax balance in monthly payments of $4,010 per month through June of 2016. We are still in the process of appealing the 2014 and 2015 assessments.

Since we have resolved the valuation and tax issues, we became cleared to submit our LISC application. All of the required information, financial history and pro formas, along with details of the five phases of our plan, have been submitted to LISC.

If we receive a favorable response from LISC, it is our goal that LISC would provide the funding for the theater conversion and upgrade. We are requesting funds sufficient to complete the conversion of half the theater. Our pro forma with the conversion is estimated to take our FullCircle Entertainment revenues to the $2.7 to $3.0 million level in the first year after conversion, which would be more than double our current revenue. Performances of other existing theaters that have made this conversion have had even greater percentages increases. Of course, these pro forma estimates depend on a number of assumptions.

No assurances can be made at this time as to the success of our plan to acquire the funding and lease or sell the property.

At this time, we have no contracts, agreements, or understandings for additional funding, nor can any assurance be given that we will be able to obtain this capital on acceptable terms. In such an event, this may have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. No assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain the total capital necessary to fund our new business plans. In such an event, this may have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.

Subsequent to December 31, 2015 on February 20, 2016 we received a Letter of Intent (LOI) for the purpose of purchasing a portion of our parking lot. The LOI purpose is to use the south end of the parking lot for a mixed-use building housing retail shops and millennium apartments. At this time the developer is engaged in a feasibility study. If this purchase for the development moves forward it will provide some working capital as well as improve the value of our remaining property. The area being discussed is about one acre in size.

FullCircle Medical Supplies, Inc. 

Until the theater funding is available the development of FullCircle Medical Supplies, Inc. has been put on hold. 

In 2013 we established a new company, FullCircle Medical Supplies, Inc. (&#147;FullCircle Medical&#148;), for the purpose of entering into the durable medical equipment (&#147;DME&#148;) supply business sector, for the purpose of acquiring medical supply businesses and other related medical supply services in the Sun Belt states.

Our plan is to acquire or establish DME businesses throughout the state of Louisiana with up to twelve DME locations, utilizing centralized warehousing, billing, and purchasing, and to provide all related DME services in each location.

Acquiring these businesses and covering the whole state of Louisiana should provide:

&#183;

Economies of scale, reducing costs of inventory and operational expenses

&#183;

Central warehousing, providing prompt supply to all stores and internet sales, and reducing obsolete inventory write-downs

&#183;

Smaller vehicle fleets

&#183;

Improved buying power by purchasing in volume

&#183;

Reduced insurance expense

&#183;

Improved individual store web sites

&#183;

Internet marketing allowing the stores to reach out to the entire country with product catalogues and shopping carts

&#183;

Social media marketing

&#183;

Centralized billing and insurance claim processing

&#183;

Improved receivables controls

&#183;

Increased selection of products

&#183;

Operational synergies between all stores 

&#183;

Improved margins and profitability

Many of these businesses are still owned by their founders, who are looking for an exit strategy to realize a gain for their life&#146;s work. Most have employees with ten to fifteen years&#146; experience, who are solid contributors to these businesses. Most are contributors to civic activities in their communities, which provides them a business connection within their marketing area. Our intent is to allow them to continue to operate autonomously, to continue to be profitable, and to improve net income with increased product selection, improved synergies, and Internet and social media exposure.

We have not completed any acquisitions at this time because of our current stock price and because of funding. 

During 2014 we signed an agreement with Kodiak Capital for the purpose of acquiring equity funding to proceed with our acquisition plans. Subsequent to December 31, 2014 we exercised a put for $100,000 in funding to begin the process of accessing $1.5 million in funding.

Because of the immediate drop in our stock price our put for funding only resulted in funds of $47,500, because Kodiak Capital reached their limit of 9.9% of our Common Stock.

Because of our current share price we are not able to continue our funding plans with Kodiak Capital until our share price returns to reasonable levels.

We believe that individuals or institutions that are engaged in a shorting process targeted us because of our very low float as well as our limited liquidity. 

On April 2, 2015 we announced that we engaged Innovative Marketing to assist in disseminating information about the mission of our company and to assist in attracting more investors to increase our stockholder base, improve our stock price and provide additional liquidly of our stock in the market. The performance of Innovative Marketing was unsatisfactorily so we vacated the agreement.

FullCircle Insurance Agency, Inc. 

The FullCircle Insurance Agency, Inc. was founded in August 2008, but is currently inactive. In the past few years the insurance industry has experienced difficulties flowing from the financial problems of AIG and other major industry players, and the enactment of the Affordable Care Act has produced significant uncertainty in the healthcare insurance field. Until these matters are stabilized, we have placed operations of this company on hold. We believe that this industry will thrive once the Affordable Care Act is fully implemented, improved, and finalized. Increased agency knowledge and professionalism will be necessary to help businesses and individuals understand the new laws. We believe there are opportunities to &#147;roll up&#148; several local agencies into regional agencies, for economies of scale in providing these professional services.

FullCircle Prescription Services, Inc. 

FullCircle Prescription Services, Inc. was established for the purpose of handling our prescription assistance services program. Its mission is to assist consumers in finding medications at discounted rates worldwide in our &#147;Shop the World&#148; program. When it becomes operational, FullCircle Prescription Services, Inc. will not dispense any medications nor handle any prescriptions, but will function only as a customer assistance program. 

Until a more favorable political climate exists we have placed the marketing efforts for the advancement of FullCircle Prescription Services, Inc. on hold. Up until 2009 the political trend was to support the re-importation of generic drugs to assist in combating the increasing expense of prescription medications most importantly for senior citizens. However, since that time the political trend has reversed largely influenced by large pharmaceutical companies. The re-importation of generic drugs manufactured by U.S. companies, which is essential to the business strategy of FullCircle Prescription Services, Inc., is currently disfavored by the U.S. Government. Pending a change in this policy, we are still operational but have elected to not expend any operational or marketing funds at this time. 

Competition: 

Movie Theater Entertainment: 

The motion picture exhibition industry is fragmented and highly competitive. Our theaters compete against regional and independent operators as well as the larger theatre circuit operators. 

In addition to competition with other motion picture exhibitors, our theaters face competition from a number of alternative motion picture exhibition delivery systems, such as cable television, satellite and pay-per-view services, Netflix and home video systems. The expansion of such delivery systems could have a material adverse effect upon our business and results of operations. We also compete for the public&#146;s leisure time and disposable income with all forms of entertainment, including sporting events, concerts, live theatre and restaurants. 

The movie theater industry is dependent upon the timely release of first run movies. Ticket sales and concession sales are influenced by the availability of top producing movies. At times, our revenues are impacted by the shortage of first run movies. During the year we experience &#147;slow&#148; releases from the movie companies in January through March and then again during the late summer from August through October. In addition we are experiencing releases of more &#147;B&#148; rated movies. 

We plan to expand into the exhibition of live sporting events such as world soccer, cricket, and possibly NFL playoff games and the World Series to provide large screen viewing of these sporting events. We are also taking an aggressive posture to expand into business conference sessions during &#147;dead&#148; screen time to facilitate the anticipated increase in demand for &#147;upload and download&#148; communication with enhanced WiFi and dish communication systems.

One of our advantages is that we have a radius of 7.5 miles without a competitive theater. In a five-mile radius we have an estimated 240,000 wall-to-wall people available taken from the 2010 census. No other theater location in Indianapolis has the exclusive large market area that we hold. 

The theater business model is in transition. Since the rental cost of movies is increasing the concession sales is the only way for a theater to be profitable. Movie rental fees now reach 58% of the ticket price. Consequently theaters are evolving into restaurants. Instead of a theater with concessions the new model will become a restaurant with entertainment. It is expected that the current theater business model will become obsolete in five years giving way to the restaurant business with entertainment in urban markets. 

Durable Medical Equipment: 

Because of the delay in the resolve of our theater the DME business model has been placed on hold. 

The durable medical equipment supply business is highly fragmented, consisting mainly of local pharmacies, small pharmacy chains, and local distributors and retail outlets. As a result, the business is not overly price competitive, and prices are generally comparable market to market and state to state. Pricing is predominantly controlled by insurance companies and by Medicare / Medicaid reimbursement policies. Revenue improvement depends on additional services and improved marketing. According to Forbes Magazine, in 2012 the medical supply business was the second most profitable of the top 20 small businesses in the country. 

Successful medical supply businesses are profitable because the founders or managers devote their attention to customer service and inventory management, to ensure quick delivery to their patrons. We plan to maintain this performance in businesses we acquire. 

Recently, Medicare has developed a competitive bidding process in larger cities that is squeezing margins of many DME businesses. We believe this trend will continue, and consequently will require better management and control of expenses to maintain profitability. We believe this situation will provide us an opportunity to acquire some of these businesses, and to provide the synergies to remain competitive and improve profits. Initially, we plan to work in the more rural markets, which do not have competitive requirements from Medicare like New Orleans and Baton Rouge. 

Debt: 

We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business. As of December 31, 2015, we have approximately $1,112,000 in unsecured notes payable. The majority of our unsecured notes are with insiders of the company and does not require any debt maintenance at this time, as interest is accrued.

We have a mortgage of $4,373,000 for our property in Indianapolis and $361,295 in the outstanding balance on our digital equipment note, which is also secured. 

Our amount of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could:

&#183;

increase our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments;

&#183;

result in an event of default if we fail to satisfy our obligations with our mortgage, which requires debt maintenance of $34,434 per month. 

&#183;

require a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our mortgage indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;

&#183;

increase our cost of borrowing;

&#183;

restrict us from making strategic acquisitions

&#183;

limit our ability to service our indebtedness;

&#183;

limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions or general corporate purposes;

&#183;

limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate, placing us at a competitive disadvantage to less highly leveraged competitors who may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting; and

&#183;

prevent us from raising the funds necessary to proceed with planned acquisitions in our Medical Supplies business model. 

Employees: 

FullCircle Registry, Inc., and its subsidiaries have employee levels ranging between 20 to 28 employees/officers depending on seasonal needs. We have never experienced employment-related work stoppages and focus on good relations with our personnel and are continuing to attract stronger talent. 

