 ITEM 1. Business 

Overview 

Blucora, Inc. ( &#8220;Blucora&#8221; ) is a leading provider of technology-enabled financial solutions to consumers, small business owners, and tax professionals. Through our operating companies, HD Vest, Inc. (&#8220; HD Vest &#8221;) and TaxAct, Inc. (&#8220; TaxAct &#8221;), we provide leading products in wealth management and tax preparation services and help millions of individuals manage their financial lives. 

In addition, Blucora operates an internet search and content business through our InfoSpace LLC subsidiary (&#8220; InfoSpace &#8221;) and an e-commerce business through the operations of Monoprice, Inc. (&#8220; Monoprice &#8221;). See "Our History" below for further information related to such businesses and the classification of each within discontinued operations. 

Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol &#8220;BCOR.&#8221; 

All references in this report to &#8220;Blucora,&#8221; the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; or &#8220;us&#8221; are to Blucora, Inc. 

Our History 

Blucora began in 1996 under the name InfoSpace, Inc. Over the next two decades, InfoSpace operated a number of digital businesses in search, directory, online commerce, media, and mobile infrastructure markets, with operations since 2008 focusing on search services and content (our &#8220;Search and Content business&#8221;). 

In January 2012, InfoSpace, Inc. acquired TaxAct, a leading provider of digital tax preparation solutions for consumers, small business owners, and tax professionals (our &#8220;Tax Preparation business&#8221;). In connection with this acquisition, InfoSpace, Inc. changed its name to Blucora, Inc. in June 2012. 

In August 2013, Blucora acquired Monoprice, Inc., which sells self-branded electronics and accessories to both consumers and businesses (our &#8220;E-Commerce business&#8221;). 

On October 14, 2015, Blucora announced the acquisition of HD Vest, which closed on December 31, 2015 . Through its subsidiaries, HD Vest operates the largest U.S. tax-professional-oriented independent broker-dealer, providing wealth management solutions to financial advisors nationwide (our &#8220;Wealth Management&#8221; business). As part of that announcement, we also stated our plans to divest the Search and Content and E-Commerce businesses, in order to focus more strategically on the technology-enabled financial solutions market (the &#8220; Strategic Transformation &#8221;). 

As a result of the Strategic Transformation, the results of operations of the Search and Content and E-Commerce businesses have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented in this report. See " Note 4: Discontinued Operations " of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II Item 8 of this report for additional information. In 

addition, as of December 31, 2015, we have two reportable segments: the Wealth Management &#32;segment, which is comprised of the HD Vest business, and the Tax Preparation segment, which is comprised of the TaxAct business. 

See " Note 2: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies " of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II Item 8 of this report for additional information on the Tax Preparation business and its revenue. See " Note 12: Segment Information " of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II Item 8 of this report for information regarding revenue, operating income, and assets for our Tax Preparation business. 

Our Businesses 

Wealth Management &#32;Business 

Our Wealth Management &#32;business distributes products and services through financial advisors who affiliate with HD Vest&#8217;s subsidiaries as independent contractors. HD Vest provides financial advisors with an integrated platform of brokerage, investment advisory and insurance services to assist in making each financial advisor a financial service center for his/her clients. HD Vest generates revenue primarily through commissions, quarterly investment advisory fees based on assets under management, and other fees. 

HD Vest has established a leading brokerage and technology platform focused on tax and accounting professionals, maintaining an independent network of approximately 4,600 financial advisors with branch offices in all 50 states. HD Vest's financial advisors provide financial solutions to more than 360,000 clients with approximately $37 billion of assets as of December 31, 2015 . 

HD Vest was founded to help certified public accountants ( &#8220;CPAs&#8221; ) and tax professionals integrate investment planning services into their practices. The company believes that tax and accounting professionals, with their existing client relationships and in-depth knowledge of their clients&#8217; financial situations, have a competitive advantage and are better positioned than competitors to provide financial solutions. HD Vest primarily recruits independent CPAs and tax professionals with established tax practices and offers specialized training and support, which allows them to join the HD Vest platform as independent financial advisors. HD Vest's specialized model provides an open-architecture investment platform and technology tools to help financial advisors identify investment opportunities for their clients, while the long-standing tax advisory relationships provide a large source of possible investment clients. This results in an experienced and stable network of financial advisors, who have multiple revenue-generating options to diversify their earnings sources. 

Tax Preparation Business 

Our Tax Preparation business provides digital do-it-yourself ( &#8220;DDIY&#8221; ) tax preparation solutions for consumers, small business owners, and tax professionals. TaxAct generates revenue primarily through its online service at www.TaxAct.com. 

TaxAct, a top-three provider of digital tax preparation solutions, has leveraged its strong brand, comprehensive suite of tax preparation solutions, and proven online lead generation capabilities to enable the filing of more than 60 million federal consumer tax returns since 2000. TaxAct operates as the value player in its market, with a mission to empower people to navigate the complexities of tax preparation with ease and accuracy at a fair price. 

We had four DDIY product offerings for consumers for tax year 2014: a free federal edition that handled simple and complex returns; the free federal edition plus a paid state edition; a "deluxe" product offering that contained all of the features of the free federal edition plus taxpayer phone support, import capabilities, return preparation assistance tools, and enhanced reporting; and an "ultimate" product offering that contained all of the deluxe offering features plus the ability to file a state return. Our small business DDIY product offering consisted of easy-to-use interview-based tax filing solutions for small business owners. TaxAct offers its products with a price lock guarantee, whereby the price at the start of the tax return filing process holds until the return is filed, rather than pricing the product at the time that the tax return is filed. We believe this price lock guarantee ensures price transparency and differentiates TaxAct from its competitors. In addition to these core offerings, TaxAct also offers ancillary services such as refund payment transfer, data archive services, audit defense, stored value cards, and other add-on services. TaxAct's value proposition and established reputation attract value-conscious and unsatisfied customers away from competitor platforms and onto the TaxAct platform. 

TaxAct&#8217;s professional tax preparer software allows professional tax preparers to prepare and file individual and business returns for their clients. TaxAct offers flexible pricing and packaging options that help tax professionals save money by paying only for what they need. In addition, the professional tax preparer software includes valuable features that tax professionals 

count on to maximize their efficiency and productivity, including the option of entering data directly into tax forms, utilizing the question-and-answer interview method to enter data, or easily toggling between the two data entry methods. 

Discontinued Operations 

As previously announced, we intend to divest our Search and Content and E-Commerce businesses in the first half of 2016 as part of the Strategic Transformation. As such, our InfoSpace and Monoprice businesses have been classified as discontinued operations. 

Our Search and Content business, InfoSpace, primarily offers search services to users of our owned and operated and distribution partners&#8217; web properties, as well as online content. Search services provided through our owned and operated web properties include services through websites such as Dogpile.com, WebCrawler.com, and HowStuffWorks.com. Search services provided to our distribution partners include services to a network of distribution partners through the respective web properties of those distribution partners, which are generally private-labeled and customized to address the unique requirements of each distribution partner. Our Search and Content revenue primarily consists of advertising revenue generated through end-users clicking on paid listings included in the search result displays, as well as from advertisements appearing on our HowStuffWorks.com website. The paid listings, as well as algorithmic search results, are primarily supplied by Google, Yahoo!, and Bing, whom we refer to as our &#8220;Search Customers.&#8221; See "Risks Related to our Discontinued Operations" in Part I Item 1A of this report for additional information regarding the risks associated with the concentration of our search customers and related revenue. 

Our E-Commerce business, Monoprice, is an online retailer of self-branded electronics and accessories to both consumers and businesses. Monoprice offers its products for sale through the www.monoprice.com website, where the majority of our E-Commerce revenue is derived, and fulfills those orders from our warehouses in Rancho Cucamonga, California and Hebron, Kentucky, the latter of which commenced operations in September 2015. We also sell our products through reseller and marketplace agreements. Consumers are able to access and purchase products 24 hours a day from the convenience of a computer or a mobile device. Monoprice&#8217;s team of customer service representatives assists customers primarily by online chat or email. Nearly all sales are to customers located in the United States. 

Growth Strategy 

Our evolving growth strategy for HD Vest and TaxAct includes participating in favorable industry trends and executing growth strategies that we believe will result in customer and advisor retention and growth beyond that of the broader markets in which we operate. 

Favorable Industry Trends 

&#8226; 

Wealth Management Industry Trends - We believe that HD Vest is and will be the beneficiary of several positive industry trends, including growth of investable assets driven by baby boomers&#8217; retirement accounts, a continued migration to independent advisor channels, and a continued shift toward household use of financial advisors. 

&#8226; 

Tax Preparation Industry Trends &#32;- TaxAct participates in the consumer DDIY tax preparation solutions market, which is the fastest growing segment in the tax preparation industry and is bolstered by a growing millennial population that continues to adopt technology-enabled financial solutions that drive value and ease in their everyday lives. 

Executing our Growth Strategies 

&#8226; 

Innovate Continuously - As emerging technology and market trends change the way people manage their financial lives, our solutions also evolve. The retention and growth of our customer and advisor base are dependent, in part, upon our ability to deliver technology-enabled financial solutions that optimize user experience and capitalize on current technology. 

&#8226; 

Offer a Comprehensive Product Suite - The products and services offered by HD Vest and TaxAct constitute a comprehensive suite of financial solutions. We believe that continued expansion of financial solutions, whether proprietary or third party, will be a source of growth for each business. In addition, the combination of HD Vest and TaxAct provides meaningful cross-selling opportunities for both businesses, further contributing to customer and advisor retention and growth. 

&#8226; 

Continue to Provide Quality Customer Support, Education, and Training &#32;- A key element of our HD Vest business model is the ongoing education and training of tax professionals, which enables them to become financial advisors and effectively manage a growing wealth management practice. HD Vest provides these tax professionals with the resources and support to build confidence and competence, enabling them to grow assets under administration. The importance of quality customer support and education also flows through to our TaxAct business, where a seasoned tax support team provides support and education to consumers and tax professionals. 

Research and Development 

Our tax preparation products are delivered primarily via software and online platforms. Since the markets for software and online technology are characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements, a continuous high level of investment is required to innovate and quickly develop new products and services as well as enhance existing offerings. Our product development efforts are becoming more important than ever as people and businesses are increasingly connected by technology and expect access to services at any place or time. Our research and development expenses from the Tax Preparation business were $4.8 million &#32;in 2015 , $2.8 million &#32;in 2014 , and $2.6 million &#32;in 2013 . These amounts exclude any amounts spent on research and development by the HD Vest business prior to our acquisition of this business. 

Seasonality 

Our Tax Preparation business is highly seasonal, with a significant portion of our annual revenue for such services earned in the first four months of our fiscal year. We anticipate that the seasonal nature of that part of the businesses will continue in the foreseeable future. 

Competition 

We face intense competition in all markets in which our businesses operate. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories, more developed infrastructures, greater brand recognition, better access to vendors, and more established relationships. Our competitors may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies, develop and expand their product and service offerings more rapidly, adapt to new or emerging technologies more quickly, take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily, achieve greater economies of scale, and devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services than we can. For our businesses to be successful, we must be competitive in the Wealth Management &#32;and Tax Preparation markets, as described in more detail below. 

Wealth Management &#32;Competition 

As a result of the HD Vest acquisition, we will face additional competition in the wealth management industry, which is a highly competitive global industry. We and our financial advisors will compete directly with a variety of financial institutions, including traditional wirehouses, independent broker-dealers, registered investment advisors, asset managers, banks and insurance companies, and direct distributors. Mergers and acquisitions have resulted in consolidation in the wealth management industry. As a result, many of our competitors may have greater financial resources, broader and deeper distribution capabilities, and a more comprehensive offering of products and services. We and our financial advisors will compete directly with those companies for the provision of products and services to clients, as well as for retention and hiring of financial advisors. 

We believe that our competitive position in the wealth management industry is a function of our ability to: 

&#8226; 

offer high-quality advice and competitive product pricing; 

&#8226; 

offer a value proposition (in terms of brand recognition, reputation, and financial advisor payouts) that is 

sufficient to recruit and retain financial advisors; 

&#8226; 

offer products that are attractive to financial advisors and their clients; 

&#8226; 

negotiate competitive compensation arrangements with third-parties, including vendors, suppliers, and product sponsors; 

&#8226; 

develop and react to new technology, services and regulation in the financial services industry; and 

&#8226; 

put in place a sufficient support and service network required to support our financial advisors and clients. 

Tax Preparation Competition 

Our TaxAct business operates in a very competitive marketplace. There are many competing software products and online services. Intuit&#8217;s TurboTax and H&#38;R Block's products and services have a significant percentage of the software and online service market. Our TaxAct business must also compete with alternate methods of tax preparation, including "pencil and paper" do-it-yourself return preparation by individual filers and storefront tax preparation services, including both local tax preparers and large chains such as H&#38;R Block, Liberty, and Jackson Hewitt. Finally, our TaxAct business faces the risk that state or federal taxing agencies will offer software or systems to provide direct access for individual filers that will reduce the need for TaxAct&#8217;s software and services. 

We believe that our competitive position in the market for tax preparation software and services is a function of our ability to: 

&#8226; 

offer competitive pricing; 

&#8226; 

continue to offer high-quality, easy-to-use, and accessible software and services that are compelling to consumers; 

&#8226; 

market the software and services in a cost effective way; and 

&#8226; 

offer ancillary services that are attractive to users. 

Discontinued Operations 

In the online search market, we face competition from multiple sources, including our Search Customers. In particular, Google, Yahoo!, and Bing (Microsoft) collectively control a significant majority of the consumer-facing online search market serviced by our owned and operated sites and those of our distribution partners. Each of these three companies provides search results to our search services in addition to competing for Internet users. Our distribution partners also compete with us for Internet users. We also compete with our Search Customers and other content providers for contracts with new and existing distribution partners. Our E-Commerce business operates in a very competitive marketplace with low barriers to entry. Our competitors that offer similar products include existing well-known brands that operate online e-commerce sites and offline retail stores, as well as new entrants to the e-commerce market. 

Privacy and Security of Customer Information and Transactions 

Our TaxAct business is subject to various federal, state and international laws and regulations and to financial institution and healthcare provider requirements relating to the privacy and security of the personal information of customers and employees. We are also subject to laws and regulations that apply to the Internet, behavioral tracking and advertising, mobile applications and messaging, telemarketing, email activities, data hosting and retention, financial and health information, and credit reporting. Additional laws in all of these areas are likely to be passed in the future, which could result in significant limitations on or changes to the ways in which we can collect, use, host, store, or transmit the personal information and data of our customers or employees, communicate with our customers, and deliver products and services, or may significantly increase our compliance costs. As our business expands to new industry segments and new uses of data that are regulated for privacy and security, or to countries outside the United States that have strict data protections laws, our compliance requirements and costs will increase. 

Through a privacy policy framework designed to be consistent with globally recognized privacy principles, we comply with United States federal and other country guidelines and practices to help ensure that customers and employees are aware of, and can control, how we use information about them. The TaxAct.com website and its online products have been certified by TRUSTe, an independent organization that operates a website and online product privacy certification program representing industry standard practices to address users&#8217; and regulators&#8217; concerns about online privacy. We also use privacy statements to provide notice to customers of our privacy practices, as well as provide them the opportunity to furnish instructions with respect to use of their personal information. We participate in industry groups whose purpose is to develop or shape industry best practices, and to influence public policy for privacy and security. 

To address security concerns, we use security safeguards to help protect the systems and the information customers give to us from loss, misuse and unauthorized alteration. Whenever customers transmit sensitive information, such as credit card information or tax return data, through one of our websites or products, we use industry standards to encrypt the data as it is transmitted to us. We work to protect our systems from unauthorized internal or external access using numerous commercially available computer security products as well as internally developed security procedures and practices. 

HD Vest&#8217;s subsidiaries are subject to privacy regulation under federal and state law, which has been, and will continue to be, an area of focus for regulators. 

Governmental Regulation 

Blucora is a publicly traded company that is subject to Securities and Exchange Commission ( &#8220;SEC&#8221; ) and NASDAQ Global Select Market rules and regulations regarding public disclosure, financial reporting, internal controls, and corporate governance. The adoption of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ( &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221; ), have significantly expanded the nature and scope of these rules and regulations. 

Our Wealth Management &#32;and Tax Preparation segments are subject to federal and state government requirements, including regulations related to consumer protection, user privacy, security, pricing, taxation, intellectual property, labor, advertising, broker-dealers, securities, investment advisors, asset management, insurance, listing standards and product and services quality. In addition, our Wealth Management business is subject to certain additional financial industry regulations and supervision, including by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ( &#8220; FINRA &#8221; ), state securities and insurance regulators, and other regulatory authorities. We also offer certain other products and services to small businesses and consumers, which are also subject to regulatory requirements. As we expand our products and services, both domestically and internationally, we may become subject to additional government regulation. Further, regulators may adopt new laws or regulations or their interpretation of existing laws or regulations may differ from ours or expand to cover additional products and services. These increased regulatory requirements could impose higher regulatory compliance costs, limitations on our ability to provide some services in some states or countries, and liabilities that might be incurred through lawsuits or regulatory penalties. See the section entitled "Risks Common to our Businesses" in Part I Item 1A of this report for additional information regarding the potential impact of governmental regulation on our operations and results. 

We are subject to federal and state laws and government regulations concerning employee safety and health and environmental matters. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, and other federal and state agencies have the authority to promulgate regulations that may have an impact on our operations. 

Intellectual Property 

Our success depends significantly upon our technology and intellectual property rights. We seek to protect such rights and the value of our corporate brands and reputation through a variety of measures, including: domain name registrations, confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with employees and third parties, protective contractual provisions, and laws regarding copyrights, patents, trademarks, and trade secrets. We hold multiple issued patents and registered trademarks in the United States and in various foreign countries and we apply for additional patents and trademarks as business needs require. We may not be successful in obtaining issuance or registration for such applications or in maintaining existing patents and trademarks. In addition, issued patents and registered marks may not provide us with any competitive advantages. We may be unable to adequately or cost-effectively protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, and failure to do so could weaken our competitive position and negatively impact our business and financial results. If others claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, we may be forced to seek expensive licenses, re-engineer our products, engage in expensive and time-consuming litigation, or stop marketing and licensing our products. See the section entitled "Risks Common to our Businesses" in Part I Item 1A of this report for additional information regarding protecting and enforcing intellectual property rights by us and third parties against us. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 772 &#32;full-time employees, of which 298 &#32;were part of our Search and Content and E-Commerce businesses. None of our employees are represented by a labor union, and we consider employee relations to be positive. There is significant competition for qualified personnel in the industries in which we operate, particularly for software development and other technical staff. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our continued ability to hire and retain qualified personnel. 

Acquisitions 

Our acquisition of HD Vest closed on December 31, 2015 . TaxAct acquired SimpleTax Software Inc. (&#8220; SimpleTax &#8221;) on July 2, 2015 &#32;and Balance Financial, Inc. (&#8220; Balance Financial &#8221;) on October 4, 2013 . For further detail on these acquisitions, see " Note 3: Business Combinations " of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II Item 8 of this report. 

Company Internet Site and Availability of SEC Filings 

Our corporate website is located at www.blucora.com. We make available on that site, as soon as reasonably practicable, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, proxy statements, Current Reports on Form 8-K, other reports filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220; SEC &#8221;), as well as any amendments to those filings. Our SEC filings, as well as our Code of Ethics and Conduct and other corporate governance documents, can be found in the Investor Relations section of our site and are available free of charge. Information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding us and other issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

