 Item 1. &#160; Business 

Overview

Profire is an oilfield technology company, providing products that enhance the efficiency, safety, and compliance of the oil and gas industry. We specialize in the creation of burner-management systems, used on a variety of oilfield natural-draft fire tube vessels, and primarily sell our products and services throughout North America. Our experienced team of industry service professionals also provides supporting services for our products.

We were originally incorporated in the State of Nevada on May 5, 2003. Since October 2008, we have been primarily engaged in the business of developing combustion management technologies for the oil and gas industry.

Fiscal Year Highlights

This was a difficult fiscal year not only for the Company, but also for our industry. The commodity price decline, and its impact on capital spending throughout the oil and gas industry, impacted customers greatly and consequently impacted our ability to grow in line with our historical patterns. However, in the midst of the industry downturn we have launched a product platform, the PF3100, which we hope will enable the Company to enter new markets and industries. Consistent with our historical objectives, the Company has avoided debt and continued to generate positive cash flow, allowing the Company many options for the use of capital in future periods. Along with the hiring of our new CFO, we believe we have taken positive steps this year to better serve the needs of our customers and ultimately deliver long-term value to all of the Company's stakeholders.

Principal Products and Services

In the oil and natural gas industry, there are numerous demands for heat generation and control. Oilfield vessels of all kinds, including line-heaters, dehydrators, separators, treaters, amine reboilers, and free-water knockout systems require heat to satisfy their various functions, which is provided by a burner flame inside the vessel. This burner flame is integral to the operation of the vessel because these vessels use the flame's heat to facilitate the proper function of the vessel. Such functions include separating, storing, transporting and purifying oil and gas (or even water). For example, the viscosity of oil and moisture content (and temperature) of gas are critical to a number of oilfield processes, and are directly affected by the heat provided by the burner flame inside the vessel. Our burner-management systems help ignite, monitor, and manage this burner flame, reducing the need for employee interaction with the burner, such as for the purposes of re-ignition or temperature monitoring.

As a result, oil and gas producers can achieve increased safety, greater operational efficiencies, and improved compliance with changing industry regulations. We believe, despite the industry down turn, there is a growing trend in the oil and gas industry toward enhanced control, process automation, and data logging, partly for potential regulatory-satisfaction purposes. We continue to assess compliance-interest in the industry, especially given the budgetary constraints we have observed over the last year. We believe that enhanced burner-management products and services can help our customers be compliant with such regulatory requirements, where applicable. In addition to selling products, we train and dispatch service technicians to address this industry need in Canada and throughout the United States.

After providing installation and maintenance services for several years, we decided to pursue the development of burner-management technologies, and we began work on a proprietary burner-management system to ignite, monitor, and manage the burner flames used in oilfield vessels. Our principal objectives in developing our proprietary burner-management system were to:

&#183;

provide a safe, efficient and code-compliant method to ignite, monitor, and/or manage burner flames in the industry; and

&#160; &#160; &#183;

ensure the system could be easily controlled by oilfield operators.

&#160;

With these objectives in mind, we initially developed our first burner-management system in 2005. Since 2005, we have released several iterations of our initial burner-management system, increasing features and capabilities, while maintaining compliance with Canadian Standards Association (CSA) and Underwriters Laboratories (UL) ratings.

Our burner-management systems have become widely used in Western Canada, and well-received in the United States market, with sales to such companies as Anadarko, Chesapeake Energy, ConocoPhillips, Devon Energy, Encana, Exxon-Mobil, Petro-Canada, Shell and others. Our systems have also been sold or installed in other parts of the world, including France, Italy, Ukraine, India, Nigeria, the Middle East, Australia, and Brazil. While we have an interest in expanding our long-run international distribution capabilities, our current principal focus is on the North American oil and gas market.

&#160; Recent Product Extension: PF3100 

In September of 2015, the Company unveiled its next generation burner-management system which is designed to operate, monitor, and control more complex, multi-faceted oilfield applications. The newly announced management system, the PF3100, is an advanced management system designed to work with any number of Profire-engineered modules, specific to different applications, thus allowing the system to expertly manage a wide variety of applications and possibly whole new environments in future years.

Throughout the industry, Programmable Logic Controllers (PLC) are used to operate and manage custom-built oilfield applications. Though capable, PLC's can be expensive, tedious, and difficult to use. Our unique solution, the PF3100, can help manage and synchronize custom applications helping oilfield producers meet deadlines and improve profitability through an off-the-shelf solution with dynamic customization. The Company has begun selling the PF3100 for initial use in the oil and gas industry's natural-draft market, with additional modules, including forced-air modules, planned for the near-future.

The Company frequently assesses market needs though participating in industry conferences and soliciting feedback from existing and potential customers and looks for opportunities to provide quality solutions to the oil and gas producing companies it serves. Upon identifying a potential market need, the Company begins researching the market and developing products that might have feasibility for future sale.

Additional Complementary Products

In addition to our burner-management systems, we also sell complementary oilfield products to help facilitate improved oilfield safety and efficiency. Such products help manage fuel flow (e.g., valves and fuel trains), meter air flow (e.g., airplates), generate power on-site (e.g., solar packages), ignite and direct flame (e.g., flare stack igniter and nozzles), and other necessary functions. We have invested heavily to develop innovative complementary products, which we anticipate will help bolster continued long-term growth.

Some of these products are resold from third parties (e.g., solar packages), while some are proprietary (e.g., flare stack igniter) or patent-pending (e.g., inline pilot and valve technologies). We intend to continue developing proprietary products to help enhance our margin on some of these complementary products.

Chemical-Management Systems

In addition to the burner-management systems and complementary technologies we have sold historically, we extended our product line by acquiring the assets of VIM Injection Management ("VIM") in November 2014, which extended our brand to include chemical-management systems.

Chemical injection is used for a wide variety of purposes in the oil and gas industry including down-hole inhibition of wax, hydrates, and corrosion agents, so that product can flow more efficiently to the wellhead. Once at the wellhead, chemical injection can also be used to further process the oil or gas before it is sent into a pipeline, and with other applications.

Currently, a variety of pumps are used to meter the chemicals injected, but are often inaccurate in injecting the proper amount of chemical, as they may not account for all of the variables that affect how much chemical should be injected (e.g., pressure, hydrogen sulfide concentration, etc.) nor the optimal efficiency rates of varying pump systems.

Inaccurate injection levels are problematic because the chemicals injected are expensive; over-injection causes unnecessary expense for producers. However, under-injection can often result in the creation of poor product (i.e., with wax, hydrate, or corrosion agents) and cause problems with pipeline audits.

Our chemical-management systems monitor and manage this chemical-injection process to ensure that optimal levels of chemicals are injected. This improves the efficiency of the pump and production quality of the well, improves safety for workers that would otherwise be exposed to these chemicals, and improves compliance with pipeline operators. Like our burner-management systems, our chemical-management systems can be monitored and managed remotely via SCADA or other remote-communication systems. We have a pending process-patent for our chemical-management systems.

Principal Markets and Distribution Methods

In our experience, the oil and gas industry does not typically centralize purchasing decisions of relatively inexpensive products, such as our products and services. Therefore, we place a strong emphasis on developing relationships with customers at the field-level, with the intention to eventually show regional- or corporate-management the benefits of our systems in the fields in which we have had a presence, with the hope of expediting the adoption process for that customer. It should be noted, however, that operating and capital budgets&#8212;set by head offices of our customers&#8212;can have an effect on the ability of our field-level customers to purchase our products. In light of the increasingly challenging industry environment, we have seen a significant reduction in the capital budgets of our customers over the past year.

Because of this relationship-based purchasing structure, we emphasize sales directly to the producers rather than distributor-derived sales. However, we have had success in working with Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM) which manufacture the production and processing equipment on which our products are utilized. While these OEMs manufacture many vessels which are intended for new wells, some of their products are intended to replace old or defective vessels on existing wells. Furthermore, we have had success in working with strategic partners that deliver instrumentation and electrical (I&#38;E) services in the industry. When drilling activity is high in the industry, these OEMs and I&#38;Es can provide us with a relatively easy-to-scale sales channel.

Much of our historical revenue has been generated in working with producers directly. OEMs and I&#38;Es have also been a historically strong revenue contributor, and we realize continued benefits and scalability from those relationships. Finally, we continue to seek out quality distributor-relationships for the establishment of an additional, scalable long-term revenue channel. We feel this distribution channel will become more effective in revenue-generation as the industry becomes more aware of our products and services. Additionally, distributors are our preferred method of establishing sales-channels in international markets.

Due to the aforementioned relationship-based purchasing structure of our customers, we believe that hiring qualified sales personnel has helped us generate interest for our products. We hope to leverage our presence in various regions of North America, such as the Marcellus, Permian, Bakken, and Eagle Ford, among others, where we have working relationships with key customers, and customer-accessibility is enhanced by having nearby Profire offices. Although sales of our products and services have not been dependent on regulation of our products, especially where enforcement of such regulation has often been unpredictable, we do feel that it has enhanced our sales environment in certain geographies. In the current industry environment, enforcement has appeared to become less restrictive. We do consider legislative and regulatory trends when contemplating strategic decisions, such as new products, office locations, and distribution channels. We believe that increased regulation&#8212;especially when coupled with consistent enforcement&#8212;may influence potential customers to purchase our products or services.

Initially our sales efforts were focused primarily in Western Canada, with an office in Edmonton, Alberta. Given our success in that market, we determined to expand our sales efforts to other markets, including the U.S. market. Pursuant to our development strategy, we purchased office and warehouse space in the United States in Lindon, Utah in 2010. We currently have six offices located throughout the United States and one office in Canada. Given the current condition of the oil and gas industry, in the short-run it is unlikely that we will be able to continue our historical sales-growth trajectory, though we are still optimistic about the long-term sales-growth prospects and industry-adoption of our products as our customer base continues to increase. Recurring revenue possibilities and other high-scalability initiatives will become increasingly important for us as we pursue new levels of market penetration, stabilize revenue and net income and prepare for future growth.

In addition to developing a larger presence in international markets in future years, the PF3100 platform will serve as the base for products intended for applications outside of the oil and gas industry (as well as for new applications within the oil and gas industry). We believe diversifying into industries outside of oil and gas will better position the Company to continue to grow and create enhanced shareholder value in the future. We have created an internal committee focused on expanding our product footprint to other industries and may engage with third-party consultants to assist in exploring the most appealing markets and opportunities. Despite the industry down turn, we are committed to investing resources to this process and hope to report significant progress in the coming reporting periods.

&#160;

Competition

&#160;

Based on our experience, we believe most of the other companies in our industry are either smaller service companies or product retailers who sell products but have a limited sales and service department to both promote and support their products. A significant portion of our sales comes from our legacy burner-management systems where there are several companies marketing similar burner-management products. They include SureFire, Platinum, and ACL. Some larger conglomerates, such as Siemens, Honeywell, and others, manufacture burner-management systems for very sophisticated refinery environments and some larger (e.g., forced-air) systems in the oilfield, but they have not, historically, emphasized sales for natural draft smaller- and mid-size oilfield applications. Relative to our competition, we believe our product-offering tends to be about average in price, but with above-average capability, reliability, and product-support.

&#160;

Our competitors tend to be focused regionally, with operations that are limited to areas close to their headquarters. While we believe price is a significant component of competition within our industry, we believe the most important competitive factors are performance, quality, reliability, durability, and installation/service expertise. To that end, we have primarily sought to first create high-quality and innovative products, then to constrain costs without compromising those primary characteristics. We believe this approach will help us continue to remain highly competitive in the industry, especially in the long-run. To help assure our customers of our commitment to quality and safety, our burner-management systems have been certified to comply with CSA and UL ratings.

&#160;

We recognize the related industry-markets we plan to enter are highly competitive, and as our segment within the industry grows and matures we expect additional companies will seek to enter. Many of these companies may be more highly capitalized, more experienced, more recognized or better situated to take advantage of market opportunities. To that end, we emphasize the concept of scalability throughout our organization, in an effort to help our systems, processes, and people be prepared for continued competitiveness as we grow. Additionally, because we were an early-mover in the burner-management market, we have the advantage of established relationships with both suppliers and customers, which helps create a barrier to new entrants.

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials

We have a limited number of contracts in place with parties from whom we acquire the parts used to manufacture our products. However, we believe there are adequate alternative sources for the parts needed to manufacture our products available to us should they be needed. In the past, we have not experienced any sudden or dramatic increase in the prices of the major parts or components for our systems. However, some of the components that we resell, such as some of our valve products, are available from a limited number of suppliers. If our access to such products became constricted, we could experience a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. We anticipate our dependency on these limited componentry suppliers could diminish in the future with increased proprietary-product development. As we anticipate continued development of proprietary products&#8212;we expect to review vendor relationships to help ensure we are working with suppliers that best meet our needs and the needs of our customers.

Because many of the component parts we use are relatively low-priced and readily available, we do not anticipate that a sudden or dramatic increase in the price (or decrease in supply) of any particular part would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition even if we were unable to increase our sales prices proportionate to any particular price increase. If we experienced a significant increase in the cost of a significant number of the parts we use to build our systems, such could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition until we are able to adjust our sales prices accordingly, which could potentially help mitigate the effect of such cost increases.

We contract with a third-party fabricator to manufacture our burner-management and chemical-management systems, along with other proprietary products. We believe this has provided us with improved manufacturing efficiencies. Additionally, the use of a third-party fabricator enables the Company to concentrate our capital on liquidity maintenance, research and development projects, and other strategies that align with our core competencies instead of investments in manufacturing equipment. Under the direction of our product engineers, the manufacturer is able to procure all electronic parts, specialty cases and components, and from those components assemble the complete system. Using specialty equipment and processes provided by us, the system is tested on-site by the manufacturer, and if the finished product is acceptable, it is shipped to us for distribution. We subsequently perform our own quality-control testing, and ensure the programming for each system is ready for the anticipated environment of the customer. Shipments to us (from our manufacturer) are usually limited to approximately 300 systems, so that in the event any one shipment is lost or damaged, inventory levels are not seriously impacted. The entire process is typically completed within sixty days of the manufacturer receiving our purchase order.

In 2014, our manufacturer established an additional office, located in Arizona, which enhances our supply chain efficiency, and also provides a contingency in the event that our manufacturer's main location in Alberta, Canada is rendered dysfunctional or inefficient. While we have a contract in place with this manufacturer, should we lose its services, for whatever reason, we believe we inventory sufficient product to meet our customers' needs in the event of short-term supply chain disruptions. We also believe we have adequate alternative manufacturing sources available, and that while such a loss might result in a temporary short-term disruption, we do not anticipate it would result in a materially adverse impact in our ability to meet demand for our products or results of operations, financial condition and cash flows for a significant period of time. We periodically seek alternative manufacturing options to ensure our current fabricator is competitive in price, manufacturing quality and fulfillment speed, to ensure we have the ability to scale our production levels based on customer demand and market conditions.

Dependence upon Major Customers

During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, the following customers accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues. The loss of this major customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows:

&#160;

&#160; For the Years Ending 

March 31,

&#160; Customer 

&#160; 2016

&#160; &#160; 2015

&#160; Chesapeake Energy

&#160; &#160; 9%

&#160;

&#160; &#160; 11%

&#160;

&#160;

Patents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property

Although we believe that the success of our business depends more on the technical competence, creativity and marketing abilities of our employees than on any individual patent, trademark, or copyright, we have pursued the acquisition of intellectual property for a number of our products. 

We have filed or acquired several patent applications for various product innovations both domestically and internationally. Management will continue to assess the strategic and financial value of each potential patent as we develop various intellectual properties. The provisional and/or non-provisional applications we have filed thus far are intended to protect:

&#183;

inline pilot technologies to increase efficiency and reliability of pilot light performance in a variety of climates;

&#160; &#160; &#183;

software technology within a modular burner management system; and

&#160; &#160; &#183;

certain valve-related technologies.

&#160;

Additionally, a patent was issued related to our chemical-management system and its process for supplying a chemical agent to a process fluid. The Company was also issued a patent for an internal coil technology, though we do not feel that this issued patent will have a material benefit for the Company.

Need for Governmental Approval of our Principal Products or Services

We are required to obtain certain safety certifications/ratings for our combustion- and chemical-management systems before they are released to the market. We have received the appropriate CSA and UL certifications for our burner-management and chemical-management systems.

Effects of Existing or Probable Governmental Regulation on our Business

We believe that our products can improve regulatory compliance of our customers. Regulations concerning emissions, safe burner ignition methods, data logging, or other regulatory dimensions that could be related to our products, may impact our customers and markets. Examples of such regulations are provided below:

&#183;

B149.3-10, which has evolved in recent years and is effective for Alberta, governs the safety precautions that must be met concerning the ignition of the pilot and the main burner in Canada. It allows a programmable control to be used, if the controller complies with certain certification requirements promulgated by the CSA.

&#160; &#160; &#183;

Regulation 7, which was passed during fiscal year 2014 by the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, requires that combustion devices installed after May 1, 2014, be equipped with an auto-igniter and all existing combustion devices to be equipped with an auto-igniter by May 1, 2016.

&#160; &#160; &#183;

R307-503-3 (b) &#38; (c), which was passed during fiscal year 2014 by the Utah Department of Air Quality, mandated that all new open and enclosed burners must have an auto-igniter beginning January 1, 2015. The rule requires the two largest oil- and gas-producing counties in the state to retrofit all existing enclosed burners with auto-igniters by December 1, 2015, and all other counties to comply by April 1, 2017.

&#160; &#160; &#183;

Order 25417, which was passed by North Dakota's Industrial Council, is a new rule effective April 1, 2015, requiring producers to condition crude oil before transportation and prove oil temperature is above 110 degrees Fahrenheit, to burn off toxic gases from the oil.

Our burner management systems design enables our products to help companies become compliant with the aforementioned and other regulations. While these laws are relatively new to the states and the industry, we intend to continue following their implementation and enforcement in the coming months and years. However, given the current industry environment, there does not seem to be a focus on enforcement by these governing bodies, and we recognize that much of this out of our control. We have assigned a number of sales/service professionals to these specific geographic areas, to ensure we have a strong presence in the states and basins with specific regulation. We are following other potential regulatory changes that could affect our business, and intend to plan for (and respond to) any resulting changes appropriately.

Though we do not solely depend on such regulation to grow our business, we consider it to be a helpful tailwind in our long-term growth. We believe that increased regulation&#8212;especially when coupled with consistent enforcement&#8212;may influence potential customers to purchase our products or services.

In light of this regulatory environment, we have historically focused on providing products and services that exceed existing regulatory and industry-safety standards; therefore, we believe demand for our products may increase as regulators continue to tighten safety and efficiency standards in the industry. In addition to satisfying regulatory and safety requirements, we believe oil and gas companies continue to recognize the operational efficiencies that can be realized through the use of our burner management systems and related products.

Although we feel that sales of our products and services have not historically depended solely on regulation of our products&#8212;especially where enforcement has often been unpredictable&#8212;we do feel that such regulation has enhanced our sales environment in certain geographies. Significant changes in the regulatory environment could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition. For example, we believe there could be an increase in our sales if the U.S. were to adopt regulations that subsequently increased the demand for burner management products. We also believe that, historically, a significant portion of our Canadian sales have been aided by such regulation in Canada, resulting in a higher estimated penetration rate for our products there, and we anticipate such regulatory pressures to continue. Consequently, if the regulatory environment were to become significantly less stringent, we could experience a significant decline in the demand for our products in Canada, which we would expect could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.

As of the date of this report, we are not aware of any pending or anticipated major regulatory changes in the near future.

Research and Development

We place strong emphasis on product-oriented research and development relating to the development of new or improved products and systems. During the years ended March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2015, we spent $ 899,013 and $1,832,671 respectively, on research and development programs. None of these research and development costs were borne by our customers pursuant to customer-sponsored research activities relating to the development of new products, services or techniques or the improvement of existing products, services or techniques.

Cost and Effects of Compliance with Federal, State and Local Environmental Laws

Our business is affected by local, provincial, state, federal and foreign laws and other regulations relating to the gas and electric safety standards and codes presently extant in the oil and gas industry, as well as laws and regulations relating to worker safety and environmental protection. We cannot predict the level of enforcement of existing laws and regulations or how such laws and regulations may be interpreted by enforcement agencies or court rulings, whether additional laws and regulations will be adopted, or the effect such changes may have on us, our business or financial condition.

Additionally, our customers are affected by laws and regulations relating to the exploration for and production of natural resources such as oil and natural gas. These regulations are subject to change, and new regulations may curtail or eliminate customer activities in certain areas where we currently operate. We cannot determine the extent to which new legislation may impact customer activity levels, and ultimately, the demand for our products and services.

During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 we did not incur material direct costs to comply with applicable environmental laws. There can be no assurance, however, that this will continue to be the case in the future as environmental laws and regulations relating to the oil and natural gas industry are routinely subject to change.

Employees

&#160;

As of March 31, 2016, we had a total of 93 employees, 89 of whom were full-time employees. Of our total employees, 19 &#160; were sales department personnel, including sales administration and management, and 14 &#160; were service department personnel. In addition, we have also subcontracted a limited number of individuals to provide service- and administrative-related services.

Reports to Security Holders

We file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements on Schedule 14A and other information with the Commission. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the Commission at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 on official business days during the hours of 10:00 am to 3:00 pm. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Alternatively, you may access these reports, proxy statements and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the Commission at its website www.sec.gov . We provide free access to our filings with the Commission, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing, on our website located at www.ProfireEnergy.com .

&#160;

