 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

We are a specialty pharmaceutical company focused on utilizing our proprietary drug delivery technologies to develop and commercialize novel prescription and over-the-counter, or OTC, products that address large markets in women's health and dermatology. Our objective is to develop products that treat health or age-related conditions that: (1) are not presently being addressed or treated or (2) are currently treated with drug therapies or drug delivery approaches that are sub-optimal. Our strategy is designed to bring new products to market by identifying optimal delivery mechanisms and/or alternative applications for United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, approved active pharmaceutical ingredients, or APIs, while, in appropriate circumstances, reducing the time, cost and risk typically associated with new product development by repurposing drugs with demonstrated safety profiles and, when applicable, taking advantage of the regulatory approval pathway under Section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDC Act. We believe these approaches may reduce drug development risk and could reduce the time and resources we spend during development. Our current platform technologies include innovative delivery mechanisms for molecular iodine (I 2 ) and antibiotics. 

Our management team has experience in formulation development, intellectual property generation, clinical trial execution, regulatory strategy definition and licensing and direct to consumer product commercialization. Our business model is to outsource our manufacturing and at times commercialization activities in order to maintain our focus on technology sourcing, acquisitions and strategic partner development to create new products to address unmet needs in well-defined global markets. Our current portfolio of product candidates targets significant market opportunities and includes two clinical stage product candidates: (1) BPX01, a topical antibiotic for the treatment of acne based on a unique formulation of minocycline and (2) BPX03, a molecular iodine (I 2 ) tablet for the treatment of benign breast pain associated with fibrocystic breast condition, or FBC, and cyclic mastalgia. The molecular iodine project includes an OTC dietary supplement version, or VI 2 OLET, for the alleviation of symptoms of FBC, as well as a prescription drug version for the treatment of moderate to severe, periodic breast pain associated with FBC and cyclic mastalgia. 

Since inception, we have devoted substantially all of our efforts to developing our product candidates, including conducting preclinical and clinical trials, and providing general and administrative support for these operations. We began shipping VI 2 OLET through online stores in December 2014 and are expanding into retail pharmacies, specialty pharmacy and grocery chain outlet stores throughout the United States. We continue to pursue additional channel distribution expansion for VI 2 OLET to provide even broader access to consumers. We are exploring commercial growth opportunities, which may include strategic partnerships with women's health companies. To date, we have generated a de minimis amount of revenue from product sales while we focus on building market awareness for our product. We are not dependent on sales to any one customer. We have financed our operations primarily through the sale of equity and convertible debt securities. In June 2015, we raised net proceeds of $7.8 million through the sale of our common stock and concurrently completed an uplisting to the NYSE MKT. In December 2015 we raised net proceeds of $5.5 million in a private offering of our common stock and, in April 2016, we raised net proceeds of approximately $3.6 million from the issuance of common stock and warrants to purchase common stock in a public offering. 

Share Exchange 

On January 23, 2014, we (then operating as Thompson Designs, Inc.), BioPharmX, Inc. and the stockholders of BioPharmX, Inc., who collectively owned 100% of BioPharmX, Inc., entered into and consummated transactions pursuant to a share exchange agreement, such transaction referred to as the 

Share Exchange, whereby we issued to the stockholders of BioPharmX, Inc. an aggregate of 7,025,000 shares of our common stock, in exchange for 100% of the shares of BioPharmX, Inc. held by such stockholders. The shares of our common stock received by the stockholders of BioPharmX, Inc. in the Share Exchange constituted approximately 77.8% of our then issued and outstanding common stock, after giving effect to the issuance of shares pursuant to the share exchange agreement. As a result of the Share Exchange, BioPharmX, Inc. became our wholly-owned subsidiary. For accounting purposes, the Share Exchange was treated as a reverse acquisition, with BioPharmX, Inc. as the acquirer and us as the acquired party, and as a result the historical financial statements prior to the Share Exchange included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the historical financial statements of BioPharmX, Inc. On March 3, 2014, we changed our name to BioPharmX Corporation. On May 16, 2014, we reincorporated from Nevada to Delaware. 

Product and Product Candidates 

We have developed our product portfolio using our proprietary drug delivery technologies including innovative delivery mechanisms for molecular iodine and antibiotics. We currently have one marketed product, VI 2 OLET, and two clinical-stage product candidates, BPX01 and BPX03. The following table presents a summary of our marketed products and clinical-stage product candidates (years are in calendar years): 

Product/ Product Candidates 

&#160; Delivery Mechanism &#160; Platform Technology/ Application &#160; Product Type &#160; Anticipated Study Initiation VI 2 OLET &#160; Oral &#160; Molecular iodine (I 2 ) for the alleviation of symptoms of FBC &#160; OTC Dietary Supplement &#160; Post market non-IND study 2016 BPX03 &#160; Oral &#160; Molecular iodine (I 2 ) for treatment of moderate to severe periodic breast pain associated with FBC and cyclic mastalgia &#160; Prescription Drug &#160; Phase 3 ready 2017 BPX01 &#160; Topical &#160; Topical antibiotic for treatment of acne &#160; Prescription Drug &#160; Phase 2a and 2b 2016 

VI 2 OLET Iodine 

Our first commercial product, VI 2 OLET, is a patented OTC molecular iodine dietary supplement that addresses cyclic breast discomfort and is clinically demonstrated to alleviate the symptoms associated with FBC, including tenderness, aches and swelling. Women who suffer from menstrual-related breast discomfort are recommended to take one to two tablets per day on an empty stomach for at least 60 days to realize initial symptom relief. Our patented molecular iodine formula is delivered to breast tissue and is intended to reduce the breast cell build-up that results in breast discomfort. We launched VI 2 OLET in December 2014 in online stores and are expanding into retail pharmacies, specialty pharmacy and grocery chain outlet stores throughout the United States. 

BPX03 

In addition to VI 2 OLET, we are also developing BPX03, a prescription drug version of our molecular iodine tablet for the treatment of moderate to severe, periodic breast pain associated with FBC and cyclic mastalgia. We in-licensed this prescription iodine drug candidate, which was previously under development by the licensors, and refer to both the prior sponsor's investigational drug and our investigational drug as BPX03. We are exploring commercial growth opportunities for the expansion of VI 2 OLET, which may include strategic partnerships with women's health companies. To distribute BPX03 globally, products such as ours may require a prescription due to regulatory requirements. We 

are currently in the process of conducting a clinical study (using VI 2 OLET) under Health Canada and institutional review board, or IRB, oversight to provide additional insight on how to design a Phase 3 safety and efficacy study. We are planning to commence our first Phase 3 clinical trial for BPX03 to support FDA and foreign regulatory requirements upon completion of the non- investigational new drug application, or non-IND, study meeting with the FDA, and submission of our IND for BPX03. We expect to complete the non-IND study in calendar 2016, which would allow us to commence a Phase 3 clinical study in calendar 2017. We would seek approval only in those countries where we plan to market the prescription product. Should we decide to pursue prescription drug approval in the United States, we would submit a full 505(b)(1) New Drug Application, or NDA. 

BPX01 

We are developing BPX01, a hydrophilic, topical antibiotic for the treatment of acne. BPX01 is a novel formulation and utilizes a transepidermal delivery mechanism for minocycline that we believe has the potential to kill P. acnes bacteria without the systemic side effects of orally-administered antibiotics. BPX01 contains an active pharmaceutical ingredient that is well known, and is expected to also possess anti-inflammatory properties, which reduce swelling and redness. We have completed a 4-week animal toxicity study to support our first Phase 2a clinical study, and we are currently conducting a 13-week animal toxicity study to support the planned 12-week Phase 2b clinical study. An IND to initiate the first Phase 2a clinical trial of BPX01 was submitted to the FDA in January 2016, and we received a letter from the FDA in March 2016 stating that the study may proceed. We intend to immediately commence the Phase 2a clinical study. We are also preparing to conduct a bridging safety study using oral minocycline as the comparator and a Phase 2b dose-finding clinical study for BPX01. We intend to pursue regulatory approval under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDC Act, or Section 505(b)(2). We believe the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway, which permits us to rely in part on the FDA's prior findings of safety and/or efficacy for an approved drug product, may reduce the product development risk and could reduce the time and resources we spend during development of BPX01. We believe our design approach for transepidermal delivery may also be utilized with other APIs. 

BPX02 

We are developing BPX02, an injectable utilizing biologic materials for aesthetic dermatology applications. This research stage product candidate is currently under internal development with preclinical testing expected to begin in late calendar year 2016. We will likely pursue regulatory approval via a Biologics License Application, or BLA. As such, BPX02 would still be subject to regulation under the FDC Act, except the section of the FDC Act that governs the approval of NDAs. Instead, BPX02 would be subject to the marketing and exclusivity provisions of the Public Health Service Act, or PHSA, for approval of BLAs. However, the application process and requirements for approval of BLAs are very similar to those for NDAs. 

Target Markets 

We believe that the industry dynamics in the areas of dermatology and women's health represent significant opportunities for innovative new products to emerge as attractive solutions for unmet needs in multi-billion dollar therapeutic categories. In particular, we believe that both the dermatology and women's health markets are large specialty markets with significant global patient demand, and we believe that our focus on these markets coupled with our proprietary platform technologies should enable us to develop and commercialize attractive products within these categories. We have one commercially marketed product, VI 2 OLET, which targets the specific indication of periodic breast pain associated with fibrocystic breast condition, or FBC, and cyclic mastalgia. We are building our product portfolio to include a topical acne drug for the treatment of moderate to severe acne. 

Strategy and Competitive Strengths 

We believe that the combination of our proprietary platform technologies and the expertise of our team in the areas of product development and commercialization, for both OTC and prescription products, are the core elements driving our company. The key elements of our corporate strategy and the competitive advantages we believe these elements provide us include the following: 

&#149; patented platform technologies; &#149; potentially shorter time to market for product introductions; &#149; bifurcated market penetration; &#149; opportunistic commercialization; &#149; efficient advancement of early-stage product candidates into late- stage development; &#149; strategic partnerships, joint development and licensing; and &#149; continued development of committed, experienced employees and relationships with members of the women's health and dermatology communities. Technology and Intellectual Property 

Overview 

Our success depends in large part upon our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary protection for our products and platform technologies. Our goal is to develop a strong intellectual property portfolio that enables us to capitalize on the research and development that we have performed to date and will perform in the future, particularly for each of the products in our development pipeline and each of the products we market. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and other countries to obtain and maintain our intellectual property. We protect our intellectual property by, among other methods, filing for patent applications on inventions that are important to the development and conduct of our business with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, and its foreign counterparts. 

We also rely on a combination of non-disclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our technologies and intellectual property. We require our employees and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements in connection with their employment or consulting relationships with us. We also require them to agree to disclose and assign to us all inventions conceived in connection with the relationship. 

Patents 

Patent protection is an important aspect of our product development process and we are actively developing intellectual property in-house. In addition to an aggressive licensing strategy, we have several pending patent applications related to our novel iodine-based technologies for women's health and topical compositions for dermatological conditions. We have both United States provisional and utility patent applications pending. We also have pending international patent applications, which were filed according to the Patent Cooperation Treaty and which enable us to apply for patent protection for the described inventions in key individual countries in the future. 

On March 1, 2013, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Iogen LLC, or Iogen, to license certain patents, formulations, and know-how relating to molecular iodine formulations. Our license is an exclusive, royalty-bearing license agreement with the right to enforce and sublicense. The licensed patents have expiration dates between 2017 and 2029. 

Trademarks 

We have applied for trademark protection for several trademarks in the United States. The United States Patent and Trademark Office has registered several of our trademarks: "VIOLET," "VI 2 OLET," "BIOPHARMX," and "GET IT OFF YOUR CHEST." We have received a Notice of Allowance from the United States Patent and Trademark Office for our applications for other trademarks. A trademark application for the VI 2 OLET logo has been accepted by the examiner and published for opposition. 

We have also applied for trademark protection in two markets outside the United States. In the European Union, we have a pending trademark application for "BIOPHARMX" and a registered trademark for "VI 2 OLET." In China, we have pending trademark applications for five trademarks, which include BIOPHARMX, VIOLET IODINE and the VI 2 OLET logo. 

Strategic Alliances and Partnerships 

As part of our business strategy, we augment our internal development efforts by establishing strategic partnerships and/or alliances with third parties that have technologies, patents or other know-how that we believe will be additive to our internal efforts in the areas of women's health and dermatology. 

Iogen 

We have executed collaboration and licensing agreements with Iogen, a biotechnology company with iodine-based solutions and associated intellectual property. Our molecular iodine OTC dietary supplement, VI 2 OLET, and the development of our molecular iodine prescription product, BPX03, build upon this licensed technology and its associated intellectual property. Under the terms of the agreement, we received an exclusive, worldwide, perpetual, irrevocable license to Iogen's patented technology relating to an oral iodine tablet. In consideration of the license granted under the agreement, we agreed to pay to Iogen a non-refundable license issue fee of $150,000, which we paid in full, and 30% of net profit associated with direct commercialization of an OTC iodine tablet product or 30% of net royalties received from any sub- licensee. For other products developed and commercialized using licensed technology and associated intellectual property covered by this agreement, including a prescription iodine tablet, we agreed to pay to Iogen a royalty of 3% of net sales for the first 12 months of commercialization and 2% of net sales thereafter. 

NuTech 

We have executed a collaboration and supply agreement with NuTech Medical, Inc., or NuTech, a biologics company specializing in the spinal and orthopedics markets. This agreement describes the collaboration between NuTech and us to develop products in the field of dermatology. Products and intellectual property developed under this agreement are exclusively owned by us and licensed to NuTech for use in indications outside of dermatology. In exchange for an exclusive license to NuTech's intellectual property in the field of dermatology, we will pay to NuTech a royalty of 3% of net sales on products sold in the field of dermatology. In exchange for granting NuTech an exclusive license to our intellectual property and intellectual property developed in collaboration with NuTech in indications outside of dermatology, we will receive from NuTech a royalty of 3% of net sales on products they sell. 

Research and Development 

A core competency is providing the link between concept and commercialization through focused, practical product development based on innovative research. We employ highly-qualified scientists and consultants specializing in our various product development areas. Research and development expenses for the years ended January 31, 2016 and December 31, 2014 were approximately $5.7 million and $2.5 million, respectively. 

As a Silicon Valley-based company, we are located in a region with many strong biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, which have drawn a high caliber of scientists and scientific support staff to the region. While there is intense competition for this type of personnel, we believe our location will enable us to expand our product development and consultant resources as our business grows. Our location also provides us with convenient access to local formulation resources and preclinical testing facilities. 

Manufacturing, Supply and Production 

We utilize contract manufacturers to produce our products for commercial distribution. We have no plans to establish in-house manufacturing capabilities for large-scale production at this time. We have in place a commercial supply agreement with UPM Pharmaceuticals, or UPM, to manufacture and package our VI 2 OLET tablets. UPM provides high-quality drug development services including formulation development, clinical and commercial manufacturing satisfying the FDA's current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs, analytical methods development and stability testing. Our joint development agreement with NuTech specifies that NuTech will supply materials for certain of our dermatological products. 

Marketing, Sales &#38; Distribution 

Our team has experience in the commercialization of consumer products within channels such as drug stores, grocery stores, wholesalers, department stores, mass merchants and specialty retailers. We have experience in branding and launching products in the United States, Europe and Asia, our team has a deep understanding of channel strategies that include branded, private label and licensed product strategies. 

VI 2 OLET is sold through online stores, drug stores, grocery stores and specialty pharmaceutical retail chains throughout the United States. Our product launch for VI 2 OLET is supported by a marketing program, including in-store merchandising, a digital strategy focused on education and activation, public relations events and traditional media to drive awareness and a physician and pharmacist sampling and trial program. 

Customers 

Potential customers for our products and product candidates include pharmaceutical companies, physician's practices, including obstetricians and gynecologists, dermatologists and general practitioners, and retail customers via retail sales channels and/or pharmacy outlets. 

Competition 

FBC and Cyclic Mastalgia 

Our competitors, typically large pharmaceutical companies, vary from product to product. In the area of women's health, many companies sell supplements containing iodide salts for the purpose of addressing hypothyroidism as iodine replacement therapy. We believe our competitive advantage is our solid dose proprietary formulation that delivers molecular iodine in a stable manner, allowing the consumer to ingest orally and specifically to address breast symptoms. Addressing an underserved condition, we believe that VI 2 OLET and, if approved, BPX03, are innovative products that provide new treatment options for millions of women. 

While there is no single, established standard of care for FBC and cyclic mastalgia, physicians have typically recommended a range of treatments from changes in diet, abstaining from caffeine and methylanthine and nutritional supplements, such as gamma-linolenic acid, for mild symptoms to 

prescription analgesics and hormone-based therapies, such as contraceptives, Danocrine, Tamoxifen and Bromocriptine, for more severe symptoms. 

The following figure presents a typical treatment algorithm for FBC given the current/limited options available to physicians. 

&#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#160; Fibrocystic Breast Condition Treatment Algorithm &#160; &#160; &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#160; Phase 4 Administration of Hormone Based Treatments Danocrine Tamoxifen Bromocriptine &#160; &#160; &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#160; Phase 3 Prescription Treatment Analgesics &#160; &#160; &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#160; Phase 2 Nutritional Supplement Administration Evening primrose oil (gamma-linolenic acid) &#160; &#160; Symptom severity increases &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#160; Phase 1 Dietary Changes Low fat diet Abstention from caffeine and methylanthine &#160; &#160; &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; 

Some limitations of competitive approaches to addressing FBC and/or cyclic mastalgia include serious and sometimes dangerous side effects caused by prescription drugs and the temporary nature of relief provided by analgesics. Because optimal non-hormonal solutions do not exist, many women with this condition choose to live with chronic pain. 

Acne 

While the acne market has a number of competitive products, BPX01 is being developed to combine the most successful oral antibiotic drug for the treatment of moderate-severe acne (minocycline) with a targeted topical antibiotic technology specifically designed to localize the delivery of the drug while minimizing systemic side effects. At the present time, there is no FDA-approved topical solution for this drug. 

A number of approved prescription acne products currently exist in oral form such as isotretinoins, antibiotics, antimicrobials and oral contraceptives. These treatments are marketed by a number of large pharmaceutical and specialty pharmaceutical companies including, but not limited to: Allergan, Bayer Healthcare, Galderma S.A., Pfizer, Pharmacia, Teva and Valeant. Additionally, there are several prescription acne products that exist in topical form such as antimicrobials, retinoids, or some combination of the two. These topical solutions are marketed by companies such as Allergan, Galderma S.A., GlaxoSmithKline, Mylan and Valeant. In addition to prescription acne therapies discussed above, there are numerous OTC products in the form of benzoyl peroxide and salicylic acid topical solutions available from various cosmetic and cosmeceutical companies such as Aveeno, Clean &#38; Clear, Clearasil, Neutrogena and Proactiv. 

Energy-based devices have also been widely used by dermatologists, such as intense pulsed light, or IPL, by Ellipse and combination of IPL and radiofrequency devices, elos, by Syneron. Combination drug-device treatments such as photodynamic therapy, or PDT, with Blu-U by Dusa Pharmaceuticals, 

has been used off-label for treating acne, while the Blu-U light source without its PDT drug has been indicated for acne treatment. 

Government Regulation 

In the United States, foods (including dietary supplements), drugs (including biological products), medical devices, cosmetics, tobacco products and radiation-emitting products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA. The FDC Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern, among other things, the manufacture, distribution and sale of these products. These laws and regulations prescribe criminal and civil penalties that can be assessed, and violation of these laws and regulations can result in enforcement action by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. 

Regulation of Dietary Supplements 

The formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution and sale (hereafter, "sale" or "sold" may be used to signify all of these activities) of dietary supplements are subject to regulation by one or more federal agencies, primarily the FDA and the Federal Trade Commission, or the FTC, and to a lesser extent the Consumer Product Safety Commission, or the CPSC. 

Dietary supplements are also regulated by various governmental agencies for the states and localities in which product are sold. The FDA, under the FDC Act, regulates the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution and sale of food, including dietary supplements. The FTC regulates the advertising of these products. The National Advertising Division, or NAD, of the Council of Better Business Bureaus oversees an industry sponsored, self-regulatory system that permits competitors to resolve disputes over advertising claims. The NAD has no enforcement authority of its own, but may refer matters that appear to violate the Federal Trade Commission Act, or FTC Act, or the FDC Act to the FTC or the FDA for further action, as appropriate. 

Federal agencies, primarily the FDA and the FTC, have a variety of procedures and enforcement remedies available to them, including initiating investigations, issuing warning letters and cease and desist orders, requiring corrective labeling or advertising, requiring consumer redress (for example, requiring that a company offer to repurchase products previously sold to consumers), seeking injunctive relief or product seizures, imposing civil penalties or commencing criminal prosecution. In addition, certain state agencies have similar authority. 

The Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act, or DSHEA, was enacted in 1994 and amended the FDC Act. DSHEA establishes a statutory class of dietary supplements, which includes vitamins, minerals, herbs, amino acids and other dietary ingredients for human use to supplement the diet. Among other things, DSHEA prevents the FDA from regulating dietary ingredients in dietary supplements as food additives. Dietary ingredients marketed in the U.S. before October 15, 1994 may be marketed without the submission of a new dietary ingredient, or NDI, premarket notification, or NDIN, to the FDA. Dietary ingredients not marketed in the U.S. before October 15, 1994 may require the submission, at least 75 days before marketing, of an NDIN containing information establishing that the ingredient is reasonably expected to be safe for its intended use. Among other things, DSHEA prevents the FDA from regulating dietary ingredients in dietary supplements as food additives. 

The FDA issued a draft guidance document in July 2011 that clarifies when the FDA believes a dietary ingredient is an NDI, when a manufacturer or distributor must submit an NDI premarket notification to the FDA, the evidence necessary to document the safety of an NDI and the methods for establishing the identity of an NDI. The FDA's interpretation of what constitutes an NDI is extremely broad and seems to imply that virtually every new dietary supplement requires a premarket notification. Although the industry and Congress have objected to and questioned the FDA's interpretations of law set forth in the draft guidance, and the FDA has committed to issuing a new version of the draft guidance, it is unclear when the FDA will issue the new draft guidance and whether the FDA will make 

significant changes to the draft guidance. In addition, the FDA may begin to take enforcement actions consistent with the interpretations in the draft guidance before issuing a final version. 

The FDA's cGMPs regulations for dietary supplements apply to manufacturers and holders of finished dietary supplement products, including dietary supplements manufactured outside the U.S. that are imported for sale into the U.S. Among other things, the FDA's cGMPs: (a) require identity testing on all incoming dietary ingredients, (b) call for a scientifically valid system for ensuring finished products meet all specifications, (c) include requirements related to process controls, including statistical sampling of finished batches for testing and requirements for written procedures and (d) require extensive recordkeeping. 

Under the Dietary Supplement and Nonprescription Drug Consumer Protection Act, the FDA requires, among other things, that companies that manufacture or distribute nonprescription drugs or dietary supplements report serious adverse events associated with their products to the FDA and institute recordkeeping requirements for all adverse events. Based on serious adverse event (or other) information, the FDA may take actions against dietary supplements or dietary ingredients that in its determination present a significant or unreasonable risk of illness or injury, which could make it illegal to sell those products. 

The FDA Food Safety Modernization Act, or FSMA, enacted January 4, 2011, amended the FDC Act to significantly enhance the FDA's authority over various aspects of food regulation, including dietary supplements. Under FSMA, the FDA may use the mandatory recall authority when the FDA determines there is a reasonable probability that a food is adulterated or misbranded and that the use of, or exposure to, the food will cause serious adverse health consequences or death to humans or animals. Also under FSMA, the FDA has expanded access to records; the authority to suspend food facility registrations and require high risk imported food to be accompanied by a certification; stronger authority to administratively detain food; the authority to refuse admission of an imported food if it is from a foreign establishment to which a U.S. inspector is refusing entry for an inspection; and the authority to require that importers verify that the foods they import meet domestic standards. 

The new FSMA requirements, as well as the FDA enforcement of the NDI draft guidance, can result in the detention and refusal of admission of imported products, the injunction of manufacturing of any dietary ingredients or dietary supplements until the FDA determines that such ingredients or products are in compliance, and the potential imposition of fees for re-inspection of noncompliant facilities. 

The FDC Act, as amended by DSHEA, permits statements of nutritional support often referred to as "structure/function claims" to be included in labeling for dietary supplements without FDA pre-market approval. FDA regulation requires that FDA be notified of those statements within 30 days of marketing. Among other things, the statements may describe the role of a dietary ingredient intended to affect the structure or function of the body or characterize the documented mechanism of action by which a dietary ingredient maintains such structure or function, but may not expressly or implicitly represent that a dietary supplement will diagnose, cure, mitigate, treat, or prevent a disease. A company that uses a statement of nutritional support in labeling must possess information substantiating that the statement is truthful and not misleading. If the FDA determines that a particular statement of nutritional support is an unacceptable drug claim or an unauthorized version of a health claim, or if the FDA determines that a particular claim is not adequately supported by existing information or is otherwise false or misleading, the claim could not be used and any product bearing the claim could be subject to regulatory action. 

The FTC and the FDA have pursued a coordinated effort to challenge the scientific substantiation for dietary supplement claims. Their efforts to date have focused on manufacturers and marketers as well as media outlets and have resulted in a significant number of investigations and enforcement actions, some resulting in civil penalties under the FTC Act of several million dollars. If the FTC and 

the FDA continue to focus on health related claims, including structure/function claims for dietary supplements, dietary supplements could be the subject of FTC and/or FDA inquiries, inquiries from the NAD and states Attorney Generals, as well as private class action lawsuits. 

All states regulate foods and drugs under laws that generally parallel federal statutes. These products are also subject to state consumer health and safety regulations, such as California Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986, or Proposition 65. Violation of Proposition 65 may result in substantial monetary penalties. 

FDA Regulation of Drugs 

New Drug Approval Process 

Pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA. The FDC Act, and other federal and state statutes and regulations, govern, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, storage, recordkeeping, approval, labeling, promotion and marketing, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, sampling, and import and export of pharmaceutical products. Failure to comply with applicable U.S. requirements may subject a company to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, such as FDA refusal to approve pending NDAs, warning or untitled letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, civil penalties and criminal prosecution. 

Pharmaceutical product development for a new product or certain changes to an approved product in the United States typically involves preclinical laboratory and animal tests, the submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before clinical testing may commence, and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of the drug for each indication for which FDA approval is sought. Satisfaction of FDA pre-market approval requirements typically takes many years and the actual time required may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product or disease. 

Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry, formulation and toxicity, as well as animal trials to assess the characteristics and potential safety and efficacy of the product. The conduct of the preclinical tests must comply with federal regulations and requirements, including good laboratory practices. The results of preclinical testing are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND along with other information, including information about product chemistry, manufacturing and controls, and a proposed clinical trial protocol. Long term preclinical tests, such as animal tests of reproductive toxicity and carcinogenicity, may continue after the IND is submitted. 

A 30-day waiting period after the submission of each IND is required prior to the commencement of clinical testing in humans. If the FDA has neither commented on nor questioned the IND within this 30-day period, the clinical trial proposed in the IND may begin. 

Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational new drug to healthy volunteers or patients under the supervision of a qualified investigator. Clinical trials must be conducted: (i) in compliance with federal regulations; (ii) in compliance with good clinical practice, or GCP, an international standard meant to protect the rights and health of patients and to define the roles of clinical trial sponsors, administrators, and monitors; as well as (iii) under protocols detailing the objectives of the trial, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety, and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol involving testing on U.S. patients and subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. 

The FDA may order the temporary, or permanent, discontinuation of a clinical trial at any time, or impose other sanctions, if it believes that the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with FDA requirements or presents an unacceptable risk to the clinical trial patients. The study protocol and informed consent information for patients in clinical trials must also be submitted to an IRB for approval. An IRB may also require the clinical trial at the site to be halted, either temporarily or permanently, for failure to comply with the IRB's requirements, or may impose other conditions. 

Clinical trials to support NDAs for marketing approval are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap. In Phase 1, the initial introduction of the drug into healthy human subjects or patients, the drug is tested to assess metabolism, pharmacokinetics, pharmacological actions, side effects associated with increasing doses, and, if possible, early evidence on effectiveness. Phase 2 usually involves trials in a limited patient population to determine the effectiveness of the drug for a particular indication, dosage tolerance, and optimum dosage, and to identify common adverse effects and safety risks. If a compound demonstrates evidence of effectiveness and an acceptable safety profile in Phase 2 evaluations, Phase 3 trials are undertaken to obtain the additional information about clinical efficacy and safety in a larger number of patients, typically at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites, to permit the FDA to evaluate the overall benefit-risk relationship of the drug and to provide adequate information for the labeling of the drug. In most cases the FDA requires two adequate and well-controlled Phase 3 clinical trials to demonstrate the efficacy of the drug. A single Phase 3 trial with other confirmatory evidence may be sufficient in rare instances where the study is a large multicenter trial demonstrating internal consistency and a statistically very persuasive finding of a clinically meaningful effect on mortality, irreversible morbidity or prevention of a disease with a potentially serious outcome and confirmation of the result in a second trial would be practically or ethically impossible. 

After completion of the required clinical testing, an NDA is prepared and submitted to the FDA. FDA approval of the NDA is required before marketing of the product may begin in the U.S. The NDA must include the results of all preclinical, clinical and other testing and a compilation of data relating to the product's pharmacology, chemistry, manufacture and controls. The cost of preparing and submitting an NDA is substantial. The submission of most NDAs is additionally subject to a substantial application user fee, currently exceeding $2,374,000 for fiscal year 2016, and the manufacturer and/or sponsor under an approved new drug application are also subject to annual product and establishment user fees, currently exceeding $114,000 per product and $585,000 per establishment for fiscal year 2016. These fees are typically increased annually. 

The FDA has 60 days from its receipt of an NDA to determine whether the application will be filed based on the agency's threshold determination that it is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. If the NDA submission is filed, the FDA reviews the NDA to determine, among other things, whether the proposed product is safe and effective for its intended use. The FDA has agreed to certain performance goals in the review of NDAs. Most such applications for standard review drug products are reviewed within ten to twelve months; most applications for priority review drugs are reviewed in six to eight months. Priority review can be applied to drugs that the FDA determines offer major advances in treatment, or provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists. For biologics, priority review is further limited to drugs intended to treat a serious or life- threatening disease relative to the currently approved products. The review process for both standard and priority review may be extended by the FDA for three additional months to consider certain late-submitted information, or information intended to clarify information already provided in the submission. 

The FDA may also refer applications for novel drug products, or drug products that present difficult questions of safety or efficacy, to an advisory committee&#151;typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts&#151;for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it generally follows such recommendations. Before approving an NDA, the FDA will 

typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP. Additionally, the FDA will inspect the facility or the facilities at which the drug is manufactured. The FDA will not approve the product unless compliance with cGMPs is satisfactory and the NDA contains data that provide substantial evidence that the drug is safe and effective in the indication studied. 

After the FDA evaluates the NDA and the manufacturing facilities, it issues either an approval letter or a complete response letter. A complete response letter generally outlines the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing, or information, in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. If, or when, those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA's satisfaction in a resubmission of the NDA, the FDA will issue an approval letter. The FDA has committed to reviewing such resubmissions in two or six months depending on the type of information included. 

An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. As a condition of NDA approval, the FDA may require a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, to help ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the potential risks. REMS can include medication guides, communication plans for healthcare professionals, and elements to assure safe use, or ETASU. ETASU can include, but are not limited to, special training or certification for prescribing or dispensing, dispensing only under certain circumstances, special monitoring and the use of patient registries. The requirement for a REMS can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the drug. Moreover, product approval may require substantial post-approval testing and surveillance to monitor the drug's safety or efficacy. Once granted, product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or problems are identified following initial marketing. 

Changes to some of the conditions established in an approved application, including changes in indications, labeling, or manufacturing processes or facilities, require submission and FDA approval of a new NDA or NDA supplement before the change can be implemented. An NDA supplement for a new indication typically requires clinical data similar to that in the original application, and the FDA uses the same procedures and actions in reviewing NDA supplements as it does in reviewing NDAs. 

Pediatric Information 

Under the Pediatric Research Equity Act, or PREA, NDAs or supplements to NDAs must contain data to assess the safety and effectiveness of the drug for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the drug is safe and effective. The FDA may grant full or partial waivers, or deferrals, for submission of data. Unless otherwise required by regulation, PREA does not apply to any drug for an indication for which orphan designation has been granted. 

The Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act, or BPCA, provides NDA holders a six-month extension of any exclusivity&#151;patent or non-patent&#151;for a drug if certain conditions are met. Conditions for exclusivity include the FDA's determination that information relating to the use of a new drug in the pediatric population may produce health benefits in that population, the FDA making a written request for pediatric studies, and the applicant agreeing to perform, and reporting on, the requested studies within the statutory timeframe. Applications under the BPCA are treated as priority applications, with all of the benefits that designation confers. 

Disclosure of Clinical Trial Information 

Sponsors of clinical trials of FDA-regulated products, including drugs, are required to register and disclose certain clinical trial information. Information related to the product, patient population, phase of investigation, study sites and investigators, and other aspects of the clinical trial is then made public as part of the registration. Sponsors are also obligated to discuss the results of their clinical trials after completion. Disclosure of the results of these trials can be delayed until the new product or new 

indication being studied has been approved. Competitors may use this publicly available information to gain knowledge regarding the progress of development programs. 

The Hatch-Waxman Amendments 

Orange Book Listing 

In seeking approval for a drug through an NDA, applicants are required to list with the FDA each patent with claims covering the applicant's product or method of using the product. Upon approval of a drug, each of the patents listed in the application for the drug is then published in the FDA's Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, commonly known as the Orange Book. Drugs listed in the Orange Book can, in turn, be cited by potential generic competitors in support of approval of an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA. An ANDA provides for marketing of a drug product that has the same active ingredients in the same strengths and dosage form as the listed drug and has been shown to be bioequivalent to the listed drug. Other than the requirement for bioequivalence testing, ANDA applicants are not required to conduct, or submit results of, pre-clinical or clinical tests to prove the safety or effectiveness of their drug product. Drugs approved in this way are commonly referred to as "generic equivalents" to the listed drug, and can often be substituted by pharmacists under prescriptions written for the original listed drug. 

The ANDA applicant is required to certify to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the approved product in the FDA's Orange Book. Specifically, the applicant must certify that: (i) the required patent information has not been filed; (ii) the listed patent has expired; (iii) the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or (iv) the listed patent is invalid or will not be infringed by the new product. The ANDA applicant may also elect to submit a section viii statement certifying that its proposed ANDA labeling does not contain (or carves out) any language regarding the patented method-of-use rather than certify to a listed method-of-use patent. If the applicant does not challenge the listed patents, the ANDA application will not be approved until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired. 

A certification that the new product will not infringe the already approved product's listed patents, or that such patents are invalid, is called a Paragraph IV certification. If the ANDA applicant has provided a Paragraph IV certification to the FDA, the applicant must also send notice of the Paragraph IV certification to the NDA and patent holders once the ANDA has been received by the FDA. The NDA and patent holders may then initiate a patent infringement lawsuit in response to the notice of the Paragraph IV certification. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days of the receipt of a Paragraph IV certification automatically prevents the FDA from approving the ANDA until the earlier of 30 months, expiration of the patent, settlement of the lawsuit or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the ANDA applicant. 

The ANDA application also will not be approved until any applicable non-patent exclusivity listed in the Orange Book for the referenced product has expired. 

Exclusivity 

Exclusivity provisions under the FDC Act also can delay the submission or the approval of certain applications. The FDC Act provides a five-year period of non-patent exclusivity within the United States to the first applicant to gain approval of an NDA for a new chemical entity, or NCE. A drug is entitled to NCE exclusivity if it contains a drug substance no active moiety of which has been previously approved by the FDA. During the exclusivity period, the FDA may not accept for review an ANDA or file a 505(b)(2) NDA submitted by another company for another version of such drug where the applicant does not own or have a legal right of reference to all the data required for approval. However, an application may be submitted after four years if it contains a Paragraph IV certification. 

The FDC Act also provides three years of market exclusivity for an NDA, including a 505(b)(2) NDA, or supplement to an existing NDA if new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability studies, that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are deemed by the FDA to be essential to the approval of the application, for example, for new indications, dosages or strengths of an existing drug. This three-year exclusivity covers only the conditions for use associated with the new clinical investigations and does not prohibit the FDA from approving ANDAs for drugs for the original conditions of use, such as the originally approved indication. Five-year and three-year exclusivity will not delay the submission or approval of a full NDA; however, an applicant submitting a full NDA would be required to conduct or obtain a right of reference to all the non-clinical studies and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials necessary to demonstrate safety and effectiveness. 

Patent Term Extension 

After NDA approval, the owner of relevant drug patent may apply for up to a five year patent term extension. Only one patent may be extended for each regulatory review period, which is composed of two parts: a testing phase, and an approval phase. The allowable patent term extension is calculated as half of the drug's testing phase&#151;the time between the day the IND becomes effective and NDA submission&#151;and all of the review phase&#151;the time between NDA submission and approval up to a maximum of five years. The time can be shortened if the FDA determines that the applicant did not pursue approval with due diligence. The total patent term after the extension may not exceed 14 years. 

For patents that might expire during the application phase, the patent owner may request an interim patent extension. An interim patent extension increases the patent term by one year and may be renewed up to four times. For each interim patent extension granted, the post-approval patent extension is reduced by one year. The director of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office must determine that approval of the drug covered by the patent for which a patent extension is being sought is likely. Interim patent extensions are not available for a drug for which an NDA has not been submitted. 

Section 505(b)(2) New Drug Applications 

Most drug products obtain FDA marketing approval pursuant to an NDA or an ANDA. A third alternative is a special type of NDA, commonly referred to as a Section 505(b)(2), or 505(b)(2), NDA, which enables the applicant to rely, in part, on studies not conducted by, or for, the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference or use, such as the FDA's findings of safety and/or effectiveness for a similar previously approved product, or published literature, in support of its application. 

505(b)(2) NDAs often provide an alternate path to FDA approval for new or improved formulations or new uses of previously approved products. Section 505(b)(2) permits the filing of an NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies not conducted by, or for, the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference. If the 505(b)(2) applicant can establish that reliance on the FDA's previous approval is scientifically appropriate, it may eliminate the need to conduct certain preclinical or clinical studies of the new product. The FDA may also require companies to perform additional studies or measurements to support the change from the approved product. The FDA may then approve the new product candidate for all, or some, of the label indications for which the referenced product has been approved, as well as for any new indication sought by the Section 505(b)(2) applicant. 

To the extent that the Section 505(b)(2) applicant is relying on studies conducted for an already approved product, the applicant is required to certify to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the approved product in the Orange Book to the same extent that an ANDA applicant would. Thus approval of a 505(b)(2) NDA can be stalled until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product 

have expired, until any non-patent exclusivity, such as exclusivity for obtaining approval of a new chemical entity, listed in the Orange Book for the referenced product has expired, and, in the case of a Paragraph IV certification and subsequent patent infringement suit, until the earlier of 30 months, settlement of the lawsuit or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the Section 505(b)(2) applicant. 

Post-Approval Requirements 

Once an NDA is approved, a product will be subject to certain post-approval requirements. For instance, the FDA closely regulates the post-approval marketing and promotion of drugs, including standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising, off-label promotion, industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities and promotional activities involving the internet. Drugs may be marketed only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved labeling. 

Adverse event reporting and submission of periodic reports are required following FDA approval of an NDA. The FDA also may require post-marketing testing, known as Phase 4 testing, REMS, and surveillance to monitor the effects of an approved product, or the FDA may place conditions on an approval that could restrict the distribution or use of the product. In addition, quality-control, drug manufacture, packaging and labeling procedures must continue to conform to cGMPs after approval. Drug manufacturers and certain of their subcontractors are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies. Registration with the FDA subjects entities to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA, during which the agency inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMPs. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the areas of production and quality-control to maintain compliance with cGMPs. Regulatory authorities may withdraw product approvals or request product recalls if a company fails to comply with regulatory standards, if it encounters problems following initial marketing or if previously unrecognized problems are subsequently discovered. In addition, prescription drug manufacturers in the United States must comply with applicable provisions of the Drug Supply Chain Security Act and provide and receive product tracing information, maintain appropriate licenses, ensure they only work with other properly licensed entities, and have procedures in place to identify and properly handle suspect and illegitimate products. 

Biologics 

Biological products used for the prevention, treatment or cure of a disease or condition of a human being are subject to regulation under the FDC Act, except the section of the FDC Act which governs the approval of NDAs. Biological products are approved for marketing under provisions of the Public Health Service Act, or PHSA, via a BLA. However, the application process and requirements for approval of BLAs are very similar to those for NDAs, and biologics are associated with similar approval risks and costs as drugs. To help reduce the increased risk of the introduction of adventitious agents, the PHSA emphasizes the importance of manufacturing controls for products whose attributes cannot be precisely defined. The PHSA also provides authority to the FDA to immediately suspend licenses in situations where there exists a danger to public health, to prepare or procure products in the event of shortages and critical public health needs, and to authorize the creation and enforcement of regulations to prevent the introduction or spread of communicable diseases in the US and between states. 

After a BLA is approved, the product may also be subject to official lot release as a condition of approval. As part of the manufacturing process, the manufacturer is required to perform certain tests on each lot of the product before it is released for distribution. If the product is subject to official release by the FDA, the manufacturer submits samples of each lot of product to the FDA together with a release protocol showing a summary of the history of manufacture of the lot and the results of all of 

the manufacturer's tests performed on the lot. The FDA may also perform certain confirmatory tests on lots of some products, such as viral vaccines, before releasing the lots for distribution by the manufacturer. In addition, the FDA conducts laboratory research related to the regulatory standards on the safety, purity, potency, and effectiveness of biological products. As with drugs, after approval of biologics, manufacturers must address any safety issues that arise, are subject to recalls or a halt in manufacturing, and are subject to periodic inspection after approval. 

The Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009, or BPCIA, creates an abbreviated approval pathway for biological products shown to be highly similar to or interchangeable with an FDA-licensed reference biological product. Biosimilarity sufficient to reference a prior FDA-approved product requires that there be no differences in conditions of use, route of administration, dosage form, and strength, and no clinically meaningful differences between the biological product and the reference product in terms of safety, purity and potency. Biosimilarity must be shown through analytical studies, animal studies, and at least one clinical study, absent a waiver by the Secretary. A biosimilar product may be deemed interchangeable with a prior approved product if it meets the higher hurdle of demonstrating that it can be expected to produce the same clinical results as the reference product and, for products administered multiple times, the biologic and the reference biologic may be switched after one has been previously administered without increasing safety risks or risks of diminished efficacy relative to exclusive use of the reference biologic. Only one biosimilar and no interchangeable products have been approved under the BPCIA to date. Complexities associated with the larger, and often more complex, structures of biological products, as well as the process by which such products are manufactured, pose significant hurdles to implementation and are still being evaluated by the FDA. 

A reference biologic is granted twelve years of exclusivity from the time of first licensure of the reference product, and no application for a biosimilar can be submitted for four years from the date of licensure of the reference product. The first biologic product submitted under the abbreviated approval pathway that is determined to be interchangeable with the reference product has exclusivity against a finding of interchangeability for other biologics for the same condition of use for the lesser of (i) one year after first commercial marketing of the first interchangeable biosimilar, (ii) eighteen months after the first interchangeable biosimilar is approved if there is no patent challenge, (iii) eighteen months after resolution of a lawsuit over the patents of the reference biologic in favor of the first interchangeable biosimilar applicant, or (iv) 42 months after the first interchangeable biosimilar's application has been approved if a patent lawsuit is ongoing within the 42-month period. 

Regulation Outside the United States 

In order to market any product outside of the United States, a company must also comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries and jurisdictions regarding quality, safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical trials, marketing authorization, commercial sales and distribution of drug products. Whether or not it obtains FDA approval for a product, the company would need to obtain the necessary approvals by the comparable foreign regulatory authorities before it can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries or jurisdictions. The approval process ultimately varies between countries and jurisdictions and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries and jurisdictions might differ from and be longer than that required to obtain FDA approval. Regulatory approval in one country or jurisdiction does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country or jurisdiction may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. 

Regulation and Marketing Authorization in the European Union 

The process governing approval of medicinal products in the European Union follows essentially the same lines as in the United States and, likewise, generally involves satisfactorily completing each of the following: 

&#149; preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies all performed in accordance with the applicable E.U. Good Laboratory Practice regulations; &#149; submission to the relevant national authorities of a clinical trial application, or CTA, which must be approved before human clinical trials may begin; &#149; performance of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the product for each proposed indication; &#149; submission to the relevant competent authorities of a marketing authorization application, or MAA, which includes the data supporting safety and efficacy as well as detailed information on the manufacture and composition of the product in clinical development and proposed labelling; &#149; satisfactory completion of an inspection by the relevant national authorities of the manufacturing facility or facilities, including those of third parties, at which the product is produced to assess compliance with strictly enforced current cGMP; &#149; potential audits of the non-clinical and clinical trial sites that generated the data in support of the MAA; and &#149; review and approval by the relevant competent authority of the MAA before any commercial marketing, sale or shipment of the product. Preclinical Studies 

Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, formulation and stability, as well as studies to evaluate toxicity in animal studies, in order to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product. The conduct of the preclinical tests and formulation of the compounds for testing must comply with the relevant E.U. regulations and requirements. The results of the preclinical tests, together with relevant manufacturing information and analytical data, are submitted as part of the CTA. 

Clinical Trial Approval 

Requirements for the conduct of clinical trials in the European Union including GCP are implemented in the Clinical Trials Directive 2001/20/EC and the GCP Directive 2005/28/EC. Pursuant to Directive 2001/20/EC and Directive 2005/28/EC, as amended, a system for the approval of clinical trials in the European Union has been implemented through national legislation of the member states. Under this system, approval must be obtained from the competent national authority of an E.U. member state in which a study is planned to be conducted, or in multiple member states if the clinical trial is to be conducted in a number of member states. To this end, a CTA is submitted, which must be supported by an investigational medicinal product dossier, or IMPD, and further supporting information prescribed by Directive 2001/20/EC and Directive 2005/28/EC and other applicable guidance documents. Furthermore, a clinical trial may only be started after a competent ethics committee has issued a favorable opinion on the clinical trial application in that country. 

In April 2014, the E.U. legislators passed the new Clinical Trials Regulation, (EU) No 536/2014, which will replace the current Clinical Trials Directive 2001/20/EC. To ensure that the rules for clinical trials are identical throughout the European Union, the new E.U. clinical trials legislation was passed as a regulation that is directly applicable in all E.U. member states. All clinical trials performed in the European Union 

are required to be conducted in accordance with the Clinical Trials Directive 2001/20/EC until the new Clinical Trials Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 becomes applicable, which will be no earlier than May 28, 2016. 

The new Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 aims to simplify and streamline the approval of clinical trial in the European Union. The main characteristics of the regulation include: 

&#149; A streamlined application procedure via a single entry point, the E.U. portal. &#149; A single set of documents to be prepared and submitted for the application as well as simplified reporting procedures that will spare sponsors from submitting broadly identical information separately to various bodies and different member states. &#149; A harmonized procedure for the assessment of applications for clinical trials, which is divided in two parts. Part I is assessed jointly by all member states concerned. Part II is assessed separately by each member state concerned. &#149; Strictly defined deadlines for the assessment of clinical trial application. &#149; The involvement of the ethics committees in the assessment procedure in accordance with the national law of the member state concerned but within the overall timelines defined by the Regulation Regulation (EU) No 536/2014. Marketing Authorization 

Authorization to market a product in the member states of the European Union proceeds under one of four procedures: a centralized authorization procedure, a mutual recognition procedure, a decentralized procedure or a national procedure. 

Centralized Authorization Procedure 

The centralized procedure enables applicants to obtain a marketing authorization that is valid in all E.U. member states based on a single application. Certain medicinal products, including products developed by means of biotechnological processes, must undergo the centralized authorization procedure for marketing authorization, which, if granted by the European Commission, is automatically valid in all 28 E.U. member states. The EMA and the European Commission administer this centralized authorization procedure pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. 

Pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, this procedure is mandatory for: 

&#149; medicinal products developed by means of one of the following biotechnological processes: &#149; recombinant DNA technology; &#149; controlled expression of genes coding for biologically active proteins in prokaryotes and eukaryotes including transformed mammalian cells; and &#149; hybridoma and monoclonal antibody methods; &#149; advanced therapy medicinal products as defined in Article 2 of Regulation (EC) No. 1394/2007 on advanced therapy medicinal products; &#149; medicinal products for human use containing a new active substance that, on the date of effectiveness of this regulation, was not authorized in the European Union, and for which the therapeutic indication is the treatment of any of the following diseases: &#149; acquired immune deficiency syndrome; &#149; cancer; 21 

&#149; neurodegenerative disorder; &#149; diabetes; &#149; auto-immune diseases and other immune dysfunctions; and &#149; viral diseases; &#149; medicinal products that are designated as orphan medicinal products pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 141/2000. The centralized authorization procedure is optional for other medicinal products if they contain a new active substance or if the applicant shows that the medicinal product concerned constitutes a significant therapeutic, scientific or technical innovation or that the granting of authorization is in the interest of patients in the European Union. 

Administrative Procedure 

Under the centralized authorization procedure, the EMA's Committee for Human Medicinal Products, or CHMP, serves as the scientific committee that renders opinions about the safety, efficacy and quality of medicinal products for human use on behalf of the EMA. The CHMP is composed of experts nominated by each member state's national authority for medicinal products, with expert appointed to act as Rapporteur for the co-ordination of the evaluation with the possible assistance of a further member of the Committee acting as a Co-Rapporteur. After approval, the Rapporteur(s) continue to monitor the product throughout its life cycle. The CHMP has 210 days to adopt an opinion as to whether a marketing authorization should be granted. The process usually takes longer in case additional information is requested, which triggers clock-stops in the procedural timelines. The process is complex and involves extensive consultation with the regulatory authorities of member states and a number of experts. When an application is submitted for a marketing authorization in respect of a drug that is of major interest from the point of view of public health and in particular from the viewpoint of therapeutic innovation, the applicant may pursuant to Article 14(9) Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 request an accelerated assessment procedure. If the CHMP accepts such request, the time-limit of 210 days will be reduced to 150 days but it is possible that the CHMP can revert to the standard time-limit for the centralized procedure if it considers that it is no longer appropriate to conduct an accelerated assessment. Once the procedure is completed, a European Public Assessment Report, or EPAR, is produced. If the opinion is negative, information is given as to the grounds on which this conclusion was reached. After the adoption of the CHMP opinion, a decision on the MAA must be adopted by the European Commission, after consulting the E.U. member states, which in total can take more than 60 days. 

Conditional Approval 

In specific circumstances, E.U. legislation (Article 14(7) Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 and Regulation (EC) No 507/2006 on Conditional Marketing Authorisations for Medicinal Products for Human Use) enables applicants to obtain a conditional marketing authorization prior to obtaining the comprehensive clinical data required for an application for a full marketing authorization. Such conditional approvals may be granted for product candidates (including medicines designated as orphan medicinal products) if (1) the risk-benefit balance of the product candidate is positive, (2) it is likely that the applicant will be in a position to provide the required comprehensive clinical trial data, (3) the product fulfills unmet medical needs and (4) the benefit to public health of the immediate availability on the market of the medicinal product concerned outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. A conditional marketing authorization may contain specific obligations to be fulfilled by the marketing authorization holder, including obligations with respect to the completion of ongoing or new studies, and with respect to the collection of pharmacovigilance data. 

Conditional marketing authorizations are valid for one year, and may be renewed annually, if the risk-benefit balance remains positive, and after an assessment of the need for additional or modified conditions and/or specific obligations. The timelines for the centralized procedure described above also apply with respect to the review by the CHMP of applications for a conditional marketing authorization. 

Marketing Authorization under Exceptional Circumstances 

Under Article 14(8) Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, products for which the applicant can demonstrate that comprehensive data (in line with the requirements laid down in Annex I of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended) cannot be provided (due to specific reasons foreseen in the legislation) might be eligible for marketing authorization under exceptional circumstances. This type of authorization is reviewed annually to reassess the risk-benefit balance. The fulfillment of any specific procedures/obligations imposed as part of the marketing authorization under exceptional circumstances is aimed at the provision of information on the safe and effective use of the product and will normally not lead to the completion of a full dossier/approval. 

Market Authorizations Granted by Authorities of E.U. Member States 

In general, if the centralized procedure is not followed, there are three alternative procedures as prescribed in Directive 2001/83/EC: 

&#149; The decentralized procedure allows applicants to file identical applications to several E.U. member states and receive simultaneous national approvals based on the recognition by E.U. member states of an assessment by a reference member state. &#149; The national procedure is only available for products intended to be authorized in a single E.U. member state. &#149; A mutual recognition procedure similar to the decentralized procedure is available when a marketing authorization has already been obtained in at least one E.U. member state. A marketing authorization may be granted only to an applicant established in the European Union. 

Pediatric Studies 

Prior to obtaining a marketing authorization in the European Union, applicants have to demonstrate compliance with all measures included in an EMA-approved Paediatric Investigation Plan, or PIP, covering all subsets of the pediatric population, unless the EMA has granted a product-specific waiver, a class waiver, or a deferral for one or more of the measures included in the PIP. The respective requirements for all marketing authorization procedures are set forth in Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, which is referred to as the Pediatric Regulation. This requirement also applies when a company wants to add a new indication, pharmaceutical form or route of administration for a medicine that is already authorized. The Pediatric Committee of the EMA, or PDCO, may grant deferrals for some medicines, allowing a company to delay development of the medicine in children until there is enough information to demonstrate its effectiveness and safety in adults. The PDCO may also grant waivers when development of a medicine in children is not needed or is not appropriate, such as for diseases that only affect the elderly population. 

Before a marketing authorization application can be filed, or an existing marketing authorization can be amended, the EMA determines that companies actually comply with the agreed studies and measures listed in each relevant PIP. 

Periods of Authorization and Renewals 

A marketing authorization is valid for five years in principle and the marketing authorization may be renewed after five years on the basis of a re-evaluation of the risk-benefit balance by the EMA or by the competent authority of the authorizing member state. To this end, the marketing authorization holder must provide the EMA or the competent authority with a consolidated version of the file in respect of quality, safety and efficacy, including all variations introduced since the marketing authorization was granted, at least six months before the marketing authorization ceases to be valid. Once renewed, the marketing authorization is valid for an unlimited period, unless the European Commission or the competent authority decides, on justified grounds relating to pharmacovigilance, to proceed with one additional five-year renewal. Any authorization which is not followed by the actual placing of the drug on the E.U. market (in case of centralized procedure) or on the market of the authorizing member state within three years after authorization ceases to be valid (the so-called sunset clause). 

Regulatory Data Protection 

E.U. legislation also provides for a system of regulatory data and market exclusivity. According to Article 14(11) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, as amended, and Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended, upon receiving marketing authorization, new chemical entities approved on the basis of complete independent data package benefit from eight years of data exclusivity and an additional two years of market exclusivity. Data exclusivity prevents regulatory authorities in the European Union from referencing the innovator's data to assess a generic (abbreviated) application. During the additional two-year period of market exclusivity, a generic marketing authorization can be submitted, and the innovator's data may be referenced, but no generic medicinal product can be marketed until the expiration of the market exclusivity. The overall ten-year period will be extended to a maximum of 11 years if, during the first eight years of those ten years, the marketing authorization holder, or MAH, obtains an authorization for one or more new therapeutic indications which, during the scientific evaluation prior to their authorization, are held to bring a significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies. Even if a compound is considered to be a new chemical entity and the innovator is able to gain the period of data exclusivity, another company nevertheless could also market another version of the drug if such company obtained marketing authorization based on an MAA with a complete independent data package of pharmaceutical test, preclinical tests and clinical trials. However, products designated as orphan medicinal products enjoy, upon receiving marketing authorization, a period of ten years of orphan market exclusivity. Depending upon the timing and duration of the E.U. marketing authorization process, products may be eligible for up to five years' supplementary protection certificates, or SPCs, pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 469/2009. Such SPCs extend the rights under the basic patent for the drug. 

Regulatory Requirements After a Marketing Authorization has been Obtained 

If we obtain authorization for a medicinal product in the European Union, we will be required to comply with a range of requirements applicable to the manufacturing, marketing, promotion and sale of medicinal products: 

Pharmacovigilance and other requirements 

We will, for example, have to comply with the E.U.'s stringent pharmacovigilance or safety reporting rules, pursuant to which post-authorization studies and additional monitoring obligations can be imposed. Other requirements relate, for example, to the manufacturing of products and APIs in accordance with good manufacturing practice standards. E.U. regulators may conduct inspections to verify our compliance with applicable requirements, and we will have to continue to expend time, 

money and effort to remain compliant. Non-compliance with E.U. requirements regarding safety monitoring or pharmacovigilance, and with requirements related to the development of products for the pediatric population, can also result in significant financial penalties in the European Union. Similarly, failure to comply with the E.U.'s requirements regarding the protection of individual personal data can also lead to significant penalties and sanctions. Individual E.U. member states may also impose various sanctions and penalties in case we do not comply with locally applicable requirements. 

Manufacturing 

The manufacturing of authorized drugs, for which a separate manufacturer's license is mandatory, must be conducted in strict compliance with the EMA's Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP, requirements and comparable requirements of other regulatory bodies in the European Union, which mandate the methods, facilities and controls used in manufacturing, processing and packing of drugs to assure their safety and identity. The EMA enforces its current GMP requirements through mandatory registration of facilities and inspections of those facilities. The EMA may have a coordinating role for these inspections while the responsibility for carrying them out rests with the member states competent authority under whose responsibility the manufacturer falls. Failure to comply with these requirements could interrupt supply and result in delays, unanticipated costs and lost revenues, and could subject the applicant to potential legal or regulatory action, including but not limited to warning letters, suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, injunctive action or possible civil and criminal penalties. 

Marketing and Promotion 

The marketing and promotion of authorized drugs, including industry-sponsored continuing medical education and advertising directed toward the prescribers of drugs and/or the general public, are strictly regulated in the European Union under Directive 2001/83/EC. The applicable regulations aim to ensure that information provided by holders of marketing authorizations regarding their products is truthful, balanced and accurately reflects the safety and efficacy claims authorized by the EMA or by the competent authority of the authorizing member state. Failure to comply with these requirements can result in adverse publicity, warning letters, corrective advertising and potential civil and criminal penalties. 

Patent Term Extension 

In order to compensate the patentee for delays in obtaining a marketing authorization for a patented product, a supplementary certificate, or SPC, may be granted extending the exclusivity period for that specific product by up to five years. Applications for SPCs must be made to the relevant patent office in each E.U. member state and the granted certificates are valid only in the member state of grant. An application has to be made by the patent owner within six months of the first marketing authorization being granted in the European Union (assuming the patent in question has not expired, lapsed or been revoked) or within six months of the grant of the patent (if the marketing authorization is granted first). In the context of SPCs, the term "product" means the active ingredient or combination of active ingredients for a medicinal product and the term "patent" means a patent protecting such a product or a new manufacturing process or application for it. The duration of an SPC is calculated as the difference between the patent's filing date and the date of the first marketing authorization, minus five years, subject to a maximum term of five years. 

A six month pediatric extension of an SPC may be obtained where the patentee has carried out an agreed pediatric investigation plan, the authorized product information includes information on the results of the studies and the product is authorized in all member states of the European Union. 

Pharmaceutical Coverage, Pricing and Reimbursement 

Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of products approved by the FDA and other government authorities. Sales of products will depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of the products will be covered by third-party payors, including government health programs in the United States such as Medicare and Medicaid, commercial health insurers and managed care organizations. The process for determining whether a payor will provide coverage for a product may be separate from the process for setting the price or reimbursement rate that the payor will pay for the product once coverage is approved. Third-party payors may limit coverage to specific products on an approved list, or formulary, which might not include all of the approved products for a particular indication. 

In order to secure coverage and reimbursement for any product that might be approved for sale, a company may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of the product, in addition to the costs required to obtain FDA or other comparable regulatory approvals. A payor's decision to provide coverage for a drug product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Third-party reimbursement may not be sufficient to maintain price levels high enough to realize an appropriate return on investment in product development. 

In the European Union, pricing and reimbursement schemes vary widely from country to country. Some countries provide that drug products may be marketed only after a reimbursement price has been agreed. Some countries may require the completion of additional studies that compare the cost-effectiveness of our drug candidate to currently available therapies (so called health technology assessment) in order to obtain reimbursement or pricing approval. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of drug products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. E.U. member states may approve a specific price for a drug product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the drug product on the market. Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for drug products, but monitor and control prescription volumes and issue guidance to physicians to limit prescriptions. The downward pressure on health care costs in general, particularly prescription drugs, has become intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products. In addition, there can be considerably pressure by governments and other stakeholders on prices and reimbursement levels, including as part of cost containment measures. Political, economic and regulatory developments may further complicate pricing negotiations, and pricing negotiations may continue after reimbursement has been obtained. Reference pricing used by various E.U. member states, and parallel distribution (arbitrage between low-priced and high-priced member states), can further reduce prices. Any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for drug products may not allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements. 

Healthcare Law and Regulation 

Healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payors play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of drug products that are granted marketing approval. Arrangements with third-party payors and customers are subject to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations. Such restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations, include the following: 

&#149; the federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or 26 

recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid; 

&#149; the federal False Claims Act imposes civil penalties, and provides for civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government; &#149; the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; &#149; HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act and its implementing regulations, also imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; &#149; the federal false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services; &#149; the federal transparency requirements under the Health Care Reform Law requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report to the Department of Health and Human Services information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and physician ownership and investment interests; and &#149; analogous state and foreign laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers. Some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government in addition to requiring drug manufacturers to report information related to payments to physicians and other health care providers or marketing expenditures. State and foreign laws also govern the privacy and security of health information in some circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts. 

Environmental, Health and Safety Matters 

The manufacturing facilities of the third-parties that develop our product candidates are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in a number of jurisdictions, governing, among other things: the use, storage, registration, handling, emission and disposal of chemicals, waste materials and sewage; chemicals, air, water and ground contamination; air emissions and the cleanup of contaminated sites, including any contamination that results from spills due to our failure to properly dispose of chemicals, waste materials and sewage. 

These laws, regulations and permits could potentially require the expenditure by us of significant amounts for compliance or remediation. If the third-party manufacturers fail to comply with such laws, regulations or permits, we may be subject to fines and other civil, administrative or criminal sanctions, including the revocation of permits and licenses necessary to continue our business activities. In addition, we may be required to pay damages or civil judgments in respect of third-party claims, including those relating to personal injury (including exposure to hazardous substances we use, store, handle, transport, manufacture or dispose of), property damage or contribution claims. Some environmental, health and safety laws allow for strict, joint and several liability for remediation costs, 

regardless of comparative fault. We may be identified as a responsible party under such laws. Such developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

In addition, laws and regulations relating to environmental, health and safety matters are often subject to change. In the event of any changes or new laws or regulations, we could be subject to new compliance measures or to penalties for activities that were previously permitted. 

Employees 

As of January 31, 2016, we had 30 employees, all of whom were full time. We had 10 employees in research and development. We had one employee located outside of the United States. We also retain independent contractors to support our organization. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. 

Other Information 

We are subject to the information requirements of the Exchange Act. Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained, free of charge, by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330, by sending an electronic message to the SEC at publicinfo@sec.gov or by sending a fax to the SEC at 1-202-777-1027. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. 

