 ITEM 1 &#8211; Business 

General Development of Business 

Tennant Company, a Minnesota corporation founded in 1870 and incorporated in 1909, is a world leader in designing, manufacturing and marketing solutions that empower customers to achieve quality cleaning performance, significantly reduce environmental impact and help create a cleaner, safer, healthier world. Tennant is committed to creating and commercializing breakthrough, sustainable cleaning innovations to enhance its broad suite of products, including: floor maintenance and outdoor cleaning equipment, detergent-free and other sustainable cleaning technologies, aftermarket parts and consumables, equipment maintenance and repair service, specialty surface coatings and asset management solutions. Tennant products are used in many types of environments including: Retail establishments, distribution centers, factories and warehouses, public venues such as arenas and stadiums, office buildings, schools and universities, hospitals and clinics, parking lots and streets, and more. Customers include contract cleaners to whom organizations outsource facilities maintenance, as well as businesses that perform facilities maintenance themselves. The Company reaches these customers through the industry's largest direct sales and service organization and through a strong and well-supported network of authorized distributors worldwide. 

Segment and Geographic Area Financial Information 

The Company has one reportable business segment. Sales to customers geographically located in the United States were $517.9 million, $479.5 million and $422.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. Long-lived assets located in the United States were $92.2 million and $82.2 million as of the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. Additional financial information on the Company&#8217;s segment and geographic areas is provided throughout Item 8 and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Principal Products, Markets and Distribution 

The Company offers products and solutions consisting of mechanized cleaning equipment, detergent-free and other sustainable cleaning technologies, aftermarket parts and consumables, equipment maintenance and repair service, specialty surface coatings, and business solutions such as financing, rental and leasing programs, and machine-to-machine asset management solutions. The Company markets and sells the following brands: Tennant &#174; , Nobles &#174; , Green Machines &#8482; , Alfa Uma Empresa Tennant &#8482; , IRIS &#174; &#32;&#32;and Orbio &#174; . Orbio Technologies, which markets and sells Orbio-branded products and solutions, is a group created by the Company to focus on expanding the opportunities for the emerging category of On-Site Generation (OSG). OSG technologies create and dispense effective cleaning and antimicrobial solutions on site within a facility. 

As of January 31, 2016, we closed on the sale of our Green Machines outdoor city cleaning line to Green Machines International GmbH and affiliates, subsidiaries of M&#38;F Management and Financing GmbH, which is also parent company of the master distributor of our products in Central Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa, TCS EMEA GmbH. Therefore, as of February 2016, Green Machines is no longer a Company-owned brand. Further details regarding the sale of our Green Machines outdoor city cleaning line are discussed in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

&#160;

The Company's principal markets include targeted vertical industries such as retail, manufacturing/warehousing, education, healthcare and hospitality, among others. The Company sells products directly in 15 countries and through distributors in more than 80 countries. The Company serves customers in these geographies via three geographically aligned business units: The Americas, which consists of North America and Latin America, EMEA, which consists of Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and APAC, which consists of the Asia Pacific region. 

Raw Materials 

The Company has not experienced any significant or unusual problems in the availability of raw materials or other product components. The Company has sole-source vendors for certain components. A disruption in supply from such vendors may disrupt the Company&#8217;s operations. However, the Company believes that it can find alternate sources in the event there is a disruption in supply from such vendors. 

Intellectual Property 

Although the Company considers that its patents, proprietary technologies, customer relationships, licenses, trademarks, trade names and brand names in the aggregate constitute a valuable asset, it does not regard its business as being materially dependent upon any single intellectual property. 

Seasonality 

Although the Company&#8217;s business is not seasonal in the traditional sense, the percentage of revenues in each quarter typically ranges from 22% to 28% of the total year. The first quarter tends to be at the low end of the range reflecting customers&#8217; initial slow ramp up of capital purchases and the Company&#8217;s efforts to close out orders at the end of each year. The second and fourth quarters tend to be towards the high end of the range and the third quarter is typically in the middle of the range. 

Working Capital 

The Company funds operations through a combination of cash and cash equivalents and cash flows from operations. Wherever possible, cash management is centralized and intercompany financing is used to provide working capital to subsidiaries as needed. In addition, credit facilities are available for additional working capital needs or investment opportunities. 

Major Customers 

The Company sells its products to a wide variety of customers, none of which are of material importance in relation to the business as a whole. The customer base includes several governmental entities which generally have terms similar to other customers. 

Backlog 

The Company processes orders within two weeks, on average. Therefore, no significant backlogs existed at December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 . 

Competition 

While there is no publicly available industry data concerning market share, the Company believes, through its own market research, that it is a world-leading manufacturer of floor maintenance and cleaning equipment. Several global competitors compete with Tennant in virtually every geography in the world. However, small regional competitors also exist who vary by country, vertical market, product category or channel. The Company competes primarily on the basis of offering a broad line of high-quality, innovative products supported by an extensive sales and service network in major markets. 

Research and Development 

The Company strives to be an industry leader in innovation and is committed to investing in research and development. The Company&#8217;s Global Innovation Center in Minnesota and engineers throughout its global locations are dedicated to various activities, including researching new technologies to create meaningful product differentiation, development of new products and technologies, improvements of existing product design or manufacturing processes and exploring new product applications with customers. In 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , the Company spent $32.4 million , $29.4 million &#32;and $30.5 million &#32;on research and development, respectively. 

Environmental Compliance 

Compliance with Federal, State and local provisions which have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, has not had, and the Company does not expect it to have, a material effect upon the Company&#8217;s capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. 

Employees 

The Company employed 3,164 people in worldwide operations as of December 31, 2015 . 

Available Information 

The Company makes available free of charge, through the Investor Relations website at investors.tennantco.com, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable when such material is filed electronically with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). 

