 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

SUMMARY 

&#160;

Trans-Lux Corporation is a Delaware corporation incorporated on February 5, 1920. Our Common Stock is quoted on OTC Pink under the symbol &#147;TNLX.&#148; Our principal executive offices are located at 445 Park Avenue, Suite 2001, New York, NY 10022, where our telephone number is (800) 243-5544.

Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms &#147;Trans-Lux,&#148; the &#147;Company,&#148; the &#147;Corporation,&#148; &#147;we,&#148; &#147;us,&#148; and &#147;our&#148; as used herein refer to Trans-Lux Corporation and its subsidiaries. The Company is a leading designer and manufacturer of digital signage display solutions. The essential elements of these systems are the real-time, programmable digital displays the Company designs, manufactures, distributes and services. These display systems utilize LED (light emitting diode) technologies. Designed to meet the digital signage solutions for any size venue&#146;s indoor and outdoor needs, these display products include full color text, graphic and video displays for stock and commodity exchanges, financial institutions, college and high school sports stadiums, schools, casinos, convention centers, corporate applications, government applications, theatres, retail sites, airports, billboard sites and numerous other applications. In addition, the Company&#146;s LED lighting division provides energy-saving lighting solutions that feature a comprehensive offering of the latest LED lighting technologies that provide facilities and public infrastructure with &#147;green&#148; lighting solutions that emit less heat, save energy and enable creative designs. 

DIGITAL DISPLAY PRODUCTS 

The Company&#146;s new generation of LED large screen systems features the latest digital display technologies and capabilities. The Company&#146;s product line of high performance state-of-the art digital displays and controllers are used to show full color video and messages in virtually any configuration in a variety of indoor and outdoor applications. Most of the Company&#146;s digital display products include hardware components and sophisticated software. In both the indoor and outdoor markets in which the Company serves, the Company adapts basic product types and technologies for specific use in various niche market applications. The Company also operates a direct service network throughout the United States and parts of Canada, which performs on-site project management, installation, service and maintenance for its customers and others. 

The Company employs a modular engineering design strategy, allowing basic &#147;building blocks&#148; of electronic modules to be easily combined and configured in order to meet the broad application requirements of the various industries it serves. This approach ensures product flexibility, reliability, ease of service and minimum spare parts requirements. 

The Company&#146;s Digital display market is comprised of two distinct segments: the Digital display sales division and the Digital display lease and maintenance division. Digital displays are used by sports arenas and stadiums; financial institutions, including brokerage firms, banks, energy companies, insurance companies and mutual fund companies; educational institutions; outdoor advertising companies; corporate and government communication centers; retail outlets; casinos, race tracks and other gaming establishments; airports, train stations, bus terminals and other transportation facilities; movie theatres; health maintenance organizations and in various other applications. 

Digital Display Sales Division: The Digital display sales division is currently dominated by five categories of users: financial, government/private sector, gaming, sports and outdoor advertising. 

The financial sector, which includes trading floors, exchanges, brokerage firms, banks, mutual fund companies and energy companies, has long been a user of electronic information displays due to the need for real-time dissemination of data. The major stock and commodity exchanges depend on reliable information displays to post stock and commodity prices, trading volumes, interest rates and other financial data. Brokerage firms use electronic ticker displays for both customers and brokers; they have also installed other larger displays to post major headline news events in their brokerage offices to enable their sales force to stay up-to-date on events affecting general market conditions and specific stocks. Banks and other financial institutions also use information displays to advertise product offerings to consumers. The financial sector has a product line of advanced last sale price displays, full color LED tickers and graphic/video displays. 

The government/private sector includes applications found in major corporations, public utilities and government agencies for the display of real-time, critical data in command/control centers, data centers, help desks, visitor centers, lobbies, inbound/outbound telemarketing centers, retail applications to attract customers and for employee communications. Digital displays have found acceptance in applications for the healthcare industry such as outpatient pharmacies, military hospitals and HMOs to automatically post patient names when prescriptions are ready for pick up. Theatres use digital displays to post current box office and ticket information, directional information and to promote concession sales. Information displays are consistently used in airports, bus terminals and train stations to post arrival and departure times and gate and baggage claim information, all of which help to guide passengers through these facilities. 

&#160;

&#160;

The gaming sector includes casinos, Indian gaming establishments and racetracks. These establishments generally use large information displays to post odds for race and sporting events and to display timely information such as results, track conditions, jockey weights, scratches and real-time video. Casinos and racetracks also use digital displays throughout their facilities to advertise to and attract gaming patrons. 

The scoreboard sector includes digital displays used by high schools, college sports stadiums, sports venues, municipal sports playing fields, entertainment facilities and recreational facilities to disseminate pertinent game information and advertising to the audience. This sector generally sells through dealers and distributors. 

The outdoor advertising sector includes digital displays used by automobile dealerships, churches, military installations, gas stations, highway departments, entertainment facilities and outdoor advertisers, such as digital billboards, attempting to capture the attention of passers-by. 

Equipment for the digital display sales segment generally has a lead-time of 30 to 120 days depending on the size and type of equipment ordered and material availability. 

Digital Display Lease and Maintenance Division: The Digital display lease and maintenance division leases and performs maintenance on digital displays across all of the sectors under agreement terms ranging from 30 days to 10 years. 

Sales Order Backlog (excluding leases): The amount of sales order backlog at December 31, 2015 and 2014 was approximately $2.4 million and $3.1 million, respectively. The December 31, 2015 backlog is expected to be recognized as sales in 2016. These amounts include only the sale of products; they do not include new lease orders or renewals of existing lease agreements that may be presently in-house. 

LED LIGHTING 

The LED lighting market provides energy-saving lighting solutions that features a comprehensive offering of the latest LED lighting technologies that provide facilities and public infrastructure with &#147;green&#148; lighting solutions that emit less heat, save energy and enable creative designs. 

The Company has developed what it believes is a completely unique business model for the LED Lighting market as a source manufacturer and distributor that integrates energy efficiency as well as customer experience solutions into a seamless package that is delivered directly to the end customer. The Company manufactures as well as distributes all lighting solutions from single watt vanity lights to 750-watt facility lighting. 

The business model for the lighting sales team is ROI (return on investment) driven and focuses on maximizing rebates and energy incentives to subsidize upfront capital expenses. We believe we provide our customers with the highest quality lights, widest array of financing options and world-class manufacturing with full product warranties and guarantees. 

ENGINEERING AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT 

The Company&#146;s ability to compete and operate successfully depends on its ability to anticipate and respond to the changing technological and product needs of its customers, among other factors. For this reason, the Company continually develops enhancements to its existing product lines and examines and tests new display technologies. 

The Company&#146;s TLVision TM line includes our latest LED Large Screen Systems that feature the latest digital display technologies and capabilities, available in various pitch design, including the industry&#146;s first 1.5mm LED display solution. TLVision TM consists of full color video products that can be used in a multitude of applications. These applications range from posting alphanumeric data to the displaying of full HD video. The pixel pitches of the products range from 1.5mm for very close distance viewing and up to 50mm for very long distance viewing. The Company also continues to expand its line of scoreboard solutions using its TLVision TM technology and improved hand-held, simple to operate remotes and wireless control devices. 

&#160;

&#160;

As part of its ongoing development efforts, the Company seeks to package certain products for specific market segments as well as continually tracking emerging technologies that can enhance its products. Full color, live video and digital input technologies continue to be enhanced. 

The Company maintains a staff that is responsible for product development and support. The engineering, product enhancement and development efforts are supplemented by outside independent engineering consulting organizations, as required. 

MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION 

In North America, the Company markets its digital display products in the United States and Canada using a combination of distribution channels, including direct sales representatives and a network of independent dealers and distributors. By working with software vendors and using the internet to expand the quality and quantity of multimedia content that can be delivered to our digital displays, we offer customers relevant, timely information, content management software and display hardware in the form of turnkey display communications packages. 

The Company employs a number of different marketing techniques to attract new customers, including direct marketing efforts by its sales force to known and potential users of information displays; internet marketing; advertising in industry publications; and exhibiting at domestic and international trade shows annually. 

Headquartered in New York, New York, the Company has sales and service offices in Des Moines, Iowa, and Chicago, Illinois, as well as satellite offices in the United States. 

Internationally, the Company uses a combination of internal sales people and independent distributors to market its products outside the United States. The Company has existing relationships with independent distributors worldwide covering Europe, the Middle East, South America, Africa, the Far East and Australia. Foreign revenues represented less than 10% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

The Company&#146;s revenues included one multinational customer that accounted for 12.5% and 10.8% of total revenues in 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

MANUFACTURING AND OPERATIONS 

The Company&#146;s production facilities are located in Des Moines, Iowa. The production facilities consist principally of the manufacturing, assembly and testing of digital display units and related components. The Company performs most subassembly and most final assembly of its digital display products. 

All product lines are design engineered by the Company and controlled throughout the manufacturing process. The Company has the ability to produce very large sheet metal fabrications, cable assemblies and surface mount and through-hole designed assemblies. Some of the subassembly processes are outsourced. The Company&#146;s production of many of the subassemblies and final assemblies gives the Company the control opportunity needed for on-time delivery to its customers. 

The Company has the ability to rapidly modify its product lines. The Company&#146;s displays are designed with flexibility in mind, enabling the Company to customize its displays to meet different applications with a minimum amount of lead-time. The Company designs certain of its materials to match components furnished by suppliers. If such suppliers are unable to provide the Company with those components, the Company would have to contract with other suppliers to obtain replacement sources. Such replacement might result in engineering design changes, as well as delays in obtaining such replacement components. The Company believes it maintains suitable inventory and has contracts providing for delivery of sufficient quantities of such components to meet its needs. The Company also believes that there are presently other qualified vendors of these components. Other than the LEDs and LED modules which are manufactured by foreign sources, the Company does not acquire significant amounts of components directly from foreign suppliers. The Company&#146;s products are third-party certified for compliance with applicable safety, electromagnetic emissions and susceptibility requirements worldwide. 

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

SERVICE AND SUPPORT 

The Company emphasizes the quality and reliability of its products and the ability of its field service personnel and third-party agents to provide timely and expert service to the Company&#146;s equipment on lease and maintenance bases and other types of customer-owned equipment. The Company believes that the quality and timeliness of its on-site service personnel are important components for the Company&#146;s ongoing and future success. The Company provides turnkey installation and support for the products it leases and sells in the United States and Canada. The Company provides training to end-users and provides ongoing support to users who have questions regarding operating procedures, equipment problems or other issues. The Company provides installation and service to those who purchase and lease equipment. Additionally, the Company&#146;s dealers and distributors offer support for the products they sell in the market segments they cover. 

Personnel based in regional and satellite service locations throughout the United States and Canada provide high quality and timely on-site service for the installed equipment on lease and maintenance bases and other types of customer-owned equipment. Purchasers or lessees of the Company&#146;s larger products, such as financial exchanges, casinos and sports stadiums, often retain the Company to provide on-site service through the deployment of a service technician who is on-site daily for scheduled events. The Company operates its National Technical Services and Repair Center from its Des Moines, Iowa facility. Equipment repairs are performed in Des Moines and service technicians are dispatched nationwide from the Des Moines facility. The Company&#146;s field service division is augmented by various service companies in the United States, Canada and overseas. From time to time, the Company uses various third-party service agents to install, service and/or assist in the service of certain displays for reasons that include geographic area, size and height of displays. 

COMPETITION 

The Company&#146;s availability of short and long-term leases to customers and its nationwide sales, service and installation capabilities are major competitive advantages in the digital display business. The Company believes that it is the largest supplier of large-scale stock, commodity, sports and race book gaming digital displays in the United States, as well as one of the larger digital display and service organizations in the country. 

The Company competes with a number of competitors, both larger and smaller than itself, with products based on different forms of technology. There are several competitors whose current products utilize similar technology to the Company&#146;s and who possess the resources necessary to develop competitive and more sophisticated products in the future. 

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 

The Company holds a number of trademarks for its products and considers such trademarks important to its business. 

EMPLOYEES 

The Company had approximately 84 employees as of March 3, 2016. Approximately 33% of the employees are unionized, pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement, which is in effect through December 31, 2016. The Company believes its employee relations are good. 

