 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

BUSINESS OVERVIEW 

Transcat, Inc. (&#147;Transcat&#148;, the &#147;Company&#148;, &#147;we&#148; or &#147;us&#148;) is a leading provider of accredited calibration and laboratory instrument services and a value-added distributor of professional grade test, measurement and control instrumentation. We are focused on providing our services and products to highly regulated industries, particularly the life science industry, which includes pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device and other FDA-regulated businesses. Additional industries served include industrial manufacturing; energy and utilities, including oil and gas; chemical manufacturing; FAA-regulated business, including aerospace and defense and other industries that require accuracy in their processes, confirmation of the capabilities of their equipment and for which the risk of failure is very costly. 

We conduct our business through two operating segments: service (&#147;Service&#148;) and distribution (&#147;Distribution&#148;). See Note 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in this report for financial information for these segments. We concentrate on attracting new customers in each segment and on cross-selling to existing customers to increase our total revenue. We serve approximately 17,000 and 21,000 customers through our Service and Distribution segments, respectively, with approximately 30% of those customers transacting with us through both of our business segments. 

Through our Service segment, we offer calibration, repair, inspection, analytical qualifications, preventative maintenance and other related services, a majority of which are processed through our proprietary asset management system, CalTrak&#174; (&#147;CalTrak&#174;&#148;). As of our fiscal year ended March 26, 2016 (&#147;fiscal year 2016&#148;), we operated twenty calibration service centers (&#147;Calibration Service Centers&#148;) strategically located across the United States, Puerto Rico, and Canada. All of our Calibration Service Centers have obtained ISO/IEC 17025 scopes of accreditation, which are believed to be among the best in the industry. Our accreditations are the cornerstone of our quality program, which we believe is among the best in the industry. Our dedication to quality is highly valued by businesses that operate in the industries we serve, particularly those in life science and other FDA-regulated industries, and our accreditations provide our customers with confidence that they will receive a consistent and uniform service, regardless of which of our service centers completes the service. 

Through our Distribution segment, we market, sell and rent national and proprietary brand instruments to customers globally. Our e-commerce-focused website and product catalog (the &#147;Master Catalog&#148;) offer access to more than 100,000 test, measurement and control instruments, including products from approximately 540 leading manufacturers. Most instruments we sell and rent require calibration service to ensure that they maintain the most precise measurements. By having the capability to calibrate these instruments at the time of sale and at regular post-sale intervals, we can give customers a value-added service that most of our competitors are unable to provide. Other value-added options we offer through our Distribution segment include equipment rentals for varied lengths of time and used equipment procurement, refurbishing and resale to meet various customer needs. 

Our commitment to quality goes beyond the services and products we deliver. Our sales, customer service and support teams stand ready to provide expert advice, application assistance and technical support to our customers. Since calibration is an intangible service, our customers rely on us to uphold high standards and trust in the integrity of our people and processes. 

Our customers include leading manufacturers in the life science/pharmaceutical, defense and industrial process control sectors. We believe our customers do business with us because of our integrity and commitment to quality service, our broad range of product and service offerings and CalTrak&#174;. In our fiscal year ended March 29, 2014 (&#147;fiscal year 2014&#148;) through fiscal year 2016, no customer or controlled group of customers accounted for 10% or more of our total revenue. The loss of any single customer would not have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, balance sheet, or results of operations. 

Transcat was incorporated in Ohio in 1964. We are headquartered in Rochester, New York and employ more than 500 people. Our executive offices are located at 35 Vantage Point Drive, Rochester, New York 14624. Our telephone number is 585-352-7777. Our website is www.transcat.com . 

OUR STRATEGY 

Our two operating segments are highly complementary in that their offerings are of value to customers within the same industries. Our strategy is to leverage the complementary nature of our operating segments in ways that add value for all customers who select Transcat as their source for test and measurement equipment and/or calibration and laboratory instrument services. We strive to differentiate ourselves within the markets we serve and build barriers to competitive entry by offering a broad range of products and services and by integrating our product and service offerings in a value-added manner to benefit our customers&#146; operations. 

Within the Service segment, our strategy is to drive organic growth through our unique value proposition which resonates strongly with customers who rely on accredited calibration services and/or laboratory instrument services and value superior quality to maintain the integrity of their processes and/or meet the demands of regulated business environments. We focus on customers who require precise measurement capability for their manufacturing and testing processes to minimize risk, waste and defects. We execute this strategy by leveraging our multiple locations, qualified technicians and breadth of capabilities. We differentiate ourselves from our competitors in this segment by offering a broad suite of services, maintaining internationally recognized third-party accredited quality systems and proprietary asset management software solutions and having one of the largest geographic footprints in North America with 20 Calibrated Service Centers. 

Our Distribution segment strategy is to be the premier distributor of leading handheld test and measurement equipment. Through our vendor relationships we have access to more than 100,000 products, which we market to our existing and prospective customers both with and without value-added service options that are unique to Transcat. We continuously evaluate our offerings and add new in-demand vendors and products and have expanded the number of SKU&#146;s that we stock and the number of SKU&#146;s that are sold with pre-shipment calibrations. In recent years, we have increased our focus on digital marketing to capitalize on the growing B2B ecommerce trend. Our search engine optimization strategy includes the development of unique, industry-targeted content to capture relevant web traffic, and we continue to build our presence in online marketplaces. In addition to offering pre-shipment calibrations of new equipment purchases, we offer our customers the options of renting selected test and measurement equipment or buying used equipment, furthering our ability to answer all of our customers&#146; test and measurement equipment needs. We see these initiatives as important to the future of our Distribution segment, as we seek to diversify and stabilize this operating segment&#146;s performance in the wake of negative macro-economic conditions, changes in customers&#146; online buying patterns and increased competition. 

As part of our growth strategy, we completed a number of business acquisitions during our fiscal years 2014 through 2016: 

&#9679; On August 31, 2014, we acquired Ulrich Metrology Inc. (&#147;Ulrich&#148;). Headquartered in Montreal, Quebec, Ulrich is a provider of accredited and commercial calibrations throughout Canada that specializes in providing custom metrology solutions for the aerospace and defense, industrial manufacturing and life science industries. &#160; &#9679; On March 6, 2015, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Apex Metrology Solutions (&#147;Apex&#148;). Apex is a provider of accredited and commercial calibrations, specializing in 3D metrology services, through its ISO 17025 accredited lab located in Ft. Wayne, Indiana. &#160; &#9679; On June 22, 2015, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Calibration Technologies, Inc. (&#147;Calibration Technologies&#148;, a regional provider of analytical instrument services including qualification, validation, repair and installation, headquartered in Morris Plains, New Jersey. &#160; &#9679; Effective August 24, 2015, we acquired Anmar Metrology, Inc. (&#147;Anmar&#148;), a calibration and repair service provider with significant focus on the life science and defense market, headquartered in San Diego, California. &#160; &#9679; On August 25, 2015, we acquired Nordcal Calibration Inc. (&#147;Nordcal&#148;), a provider of radio frequency and electronic calibration and repair services, located in Montreal, Quebec. &#160; &#9679; Effective December 31, 2015, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Spectrum Technologies, Inc. (&#147;Spectrum&#148;). Headquartered in Paxinos, Pennsylvania, Spectrum provides commercial calibrations, test equipment repair services and product sales throughout North America, primarily to companies in the life science and biomedical sectors. &#160; &#9679; Effective January 18, 2016, we acquired Dispersion Laboratory Inc. (&#147;Dispersion&#148;), headquartered near Montreal, Quebec, Dispersion provides fully accredited services for the calibration, repair and product sales of weights, balances, temperature instruments and liquid handling devices. In addition, just subsequent to the end of our fiscal year 2016, we acquired substantially all the assets of Excalibur Engineering, Inc. (&#147;Excalibur&#148;), a California based provider of calibration services, new and used test equipment, and product rentals. 

Our acquisition strategy primarily targets service businesses that expand our geographic reach and leverage our infrastructure while also increasing the depth and/or breadth of our service capabilities and expertise. The table below illustrates the strategical drivers for each of the acquisitions executed during our fiscal year 2014 through our fiscal year 2016: 

Geographic Increased Leveraged &#160; Expansion &#160; Capabilities &#160; Infrastructure Ulrich &#10003; &#10003; &#10003; Apex &#160; &#10003; &#160; &#10003; &#160; Calibration Technologies &#10003; Anmar &#10003; Nordcal &#10003; &#10003; Spectrum &#10003; &#10003; Dispersion &#10003; 

We believe our combined Service and Distribution segment offerings, experience, technical expertise and integrity create a unique and compelling value proposition for our customers, and we intend to continue to grow our business through organic revenue growth and business acquisitions. We believe the attributes of our Service segment which include higher gross margins and a recurring revenue stream are more compelling than our legacy Distribution segment. For this reason, we expect our Service segment to be the primary source of revenue and earnings growth in future fiscal years. The chart below illustrates Service segment and Distribution segment revenue as a portion of overall revenue over the past five years: 

SEGMENTS 

Service Segment 

Calibration 

Calibration is the act of comparing a unit or instrument of unknown value to a standard of known value and reporting the result in some specifically defined form. After the calibration has been completed, a decision is made, based on rigorously defined parameters, regarding what, if anything, should be done to the unit to conform to the required standards or specifications. The decision may be to adjust, optimize or repair a unit; limit the use, range or rating of a unit; scrap the unit; or leave the unit as is. The purpose of calibration is to significantly reduce the risk of product or process failures caused by inaccurate measurements. In addition to being an element of risk management, calibration improves an operation&#146;s productivity and efficiency to optimal levels by assuring accurate, reliable instruments and processes. Through our Service segment, we generally perform recurring periodic calibrations (typically ranging from three-month to twenty-four month intervals) on new and used instruments, as well as repair services for our customers. 

We perform over 425,000 calibrations annually and can address approximately 90% of the items requested to be calibrated with our in-house capabilities. For customers&#146; calibration needs in less common and highly specialized disciplines, we have historically subcontracted to third-party vendors that have unique or proprietary capabilities. While typically representing approximately 15% of our Service segment revenue, we believe the management of these vendors is highly valued by our customers, and our relationships have enabled us to continue our pursuit of having the broadest calibration offerings in these targeted markets. 

Laboratory Instrument Services 

Our laboratory instrument services include analytical qualification, validation, remediation and preventative maintenance services. Our analytical qualification and validation services provide a comprehensive and highly specialized service offering focused on life science-related industries. Analytical qualifications and validation services include validations to specifically documented protocols that are commonly used in highly-regulated life science 

industries including installation qualification (IQ), operational qualification (OQ), and performance qualification (PQ). Most of the demand for our qualification, validation and preventative maintenance services comes from companies and institutions engaged in pharmaceutical manufacturing and research and development. 

Our goal is to deliver specialized technical services with a quality assurance approach, which maximizes document accuracy and on-time job delivery. These industries demand knowledgeable contract services, and Transcat meets these demands with cGMP and GLP compliant services. Companies within these innovative and cutting-edge life science industries need a reliable alternative to the original equipment manufacturers (&#147;OEMs&#148;) and the &#147;generalist&#148; service providers who cannot meet their industry-specific needs. We believe our value proposition to the life science industries is unique as a result of offering a comprehensive suite of both traditional calibration and laboratory instrument and other analytical services. 

Analytical qualifications and preventative maintenance services are typically based on service agreements for periodic service, and tend to generate recurring revenue. Some validation services are based on certain customer processes. While some validation services may not be repeated, we generally develop relationships with these customers that lead to demand for additional unique validation services. Remediation services are based on specific regulatory actions and are generally project-based and required by a customer for a finite period of time. Remediation revenue is not recurring by its nature. 

Other Services 

We provide other services to our customers such as three dimensional parts inspections, which are typically performed for customers engaged in medical device manufacturing and testing, and repair and consulting services, which appeal to a broad range of customers. These services allow us to provide &#147;one-stop shopping&#148; for our customers. 

Regulation 

Our Service segment provides periodic calibration and laboratory instrument services for our customers&#146; test and measurement instruments and other equipment. We specifically target industries and companies that are regulated by the FDA, FAA or other regulatory bodies and, as a result, require quality calibration and laboratory instrument services as a critical component of their business operations. As a result of the various levels of regulation within our target industries, calibration and laboratory instrument service sourcing decisions are generally made based on the provider&#146;s quality systems, accreditation, reliability, trust, customer service and documentation of services. To maintain our competitive position in this segment, we maintain internationally recognized third-party accredited quality systems, further detailed in the section entitled &#147;Quality&#148; below, and provide our customers with access to proprietary asset management software solutions, which offer tools to manage their internal calibration programs and provide them with visibility to their service records. 

Approach 

Transcat&#146;s calibration services strategy encompasses multiple ways to manage a customer&#146;s calibration and laboratory instrument service needs: 

&#160; 1) We offer an &#147;Integrated Calibration Services Solution&#148; that provides a complete wrap-around service, which can be delivered in the following ways: &#9679; permanent on-site services: Transcat establishes and manages a calibration service program within a customer&#146;s facility; &#160; &#9679; periodic on-site services: Transcat technicians travel to a customer&#146;s location and provide bench-top or in-line calibration or laboratory services on predetermined service cycles; &#160; &#9679; in-house services: services are performed at one of our Calibration Service Centers (often accompanied by pick-up and delivery services); and &#160; &#9679; mobile calibration services: services completed on customer&#146;s property within our mobile calibration unit. 5 

&#160; 2) For companies that maintain an internal calibration operation, we can provide: &#9679; calibration of primary standards; and &#160; &#9679; overflow capability, either on-site or at one of our Calibration Service Centers, during periods of high demand. Inclusive with all these services, we provide total program management including logistical, remediation and consultation services when needed. 

We strive to provide the broadest accredited calibration offering to our targeted markets, which includes certification of our technicians pursuant to the American Society for Quality standards, complete calibration management encompassing the entire metrology function, and access to our complementary service and product offerings. We believe our calibration services are of the highest technical and quality levels, with broad ranges of accreditation. 

Our laboratory instrument services strategy is to identify and establish long-term relationships with life science research and development and manufacturing customers who require analytical qualifications, validation, remediation and/or preventative maintenance services. In most cases, these customers are life science companies, including pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies engaged in research and development and manufacturing, which are subject to extensive government regulation. The services we provide to these regulated customers are typically a critical component of the customer&#146;s overall compliance program. Because many laboratory instrument service customers operate in regulated industries, these same customers typically also require accredited calibration services. This requirement allows a natural synergy between our laboratory instrument and calibration services. Our strategy includes cross-selling our services within our customer accounts to maximize our revenue opportunities with each customer. 

CalTrak&#174; 

CalTrak&#174; is our proprietary documentation and asset management software which is used to manage both the workflow of our Calibration Service Centers and our customers&#146; assets. With CalTrak&#174;, we are able to provide our customers with timely and consistent calibration service while optimizing our own efficiencies. CalTrak&#174; has been validated to U.S. federal regulations 21 CFR Part 820.75 and 21 CFR Part 11, as applicable. This validation is important to pharmaceutical and other FDA-regulated industries where federal regulations can be particularly stringent. 

Additionally, CalTrak&#174; Online provides our customers with web-based asset management capability and a safe and secure off-site archive of calibration and other service records that can be accessed 24 hours a day through our secure password-protected website. Through CalTrak&#174; and CalTrak&#174; Online, each customer calibration is tracked and automatically cross-referenced to the assets used to perform the calibration, providing traceability. 

Our newly developed web-based customer portal and asset management tool (&#147;C3&#153;&#148;) is scheduled to replace CalTrak&#174; Online in fiscal year 2017. C3&#153; stands for Compliance, Control and Cost and at Transcat we see these as the major areas of focus for our clients within the regulatory environment as it relates to instrument calibration. We specifically designed C3&#153; to assist our valued clients in driving compliance to quality systems, enhancing control of instrumentation while driving overall metrology cost down. Understanding the unique environments that our clients operate within, we customized the platform to allow for single system of record utilization via capabilities that allow clients to track instruments maintained internally in addition to instruments supported by Transcat. C3&#153; is validated to 21 CFR Part 820.75 and 21 CFR Part 11 to meet stringent FDA requirements. 

Marketing and Sales 

Under our integrated sales model, we have both inside and outside sales teams that seek to acquire new customers in our targeted markets by leveraging our unique value proposition, including our broad geographic footprint and comprehensive suite of services. We target regulated, enterprise customers with multiple manufacturing operations throughout North America. We leverage our ability to manage the complete life cycle of instrumentation from purchase of calibrated equipment to long-term service and maintenance requirements. Connecting all the dots by using new and used product sales, rentals, and repair and calibration services is the aim of our marketing and sales initiatives. We also have a team of account managers, focused on servicing the needs of our existing customers. We utilize print media, trade shows and web-based initiatives to market our services to customers and prospective customers with a strategic focus in the highly regulated industries including life science and other FDA-regulated industries, aerospace and defense, energy and utilities, and chemical manufacturing. We also target industrial manufacturing and other 

industries that appreciate the value of quality calibrations. Our quality process and standards are designed to meet the needs of companies that must address regulatory requirements and/or have a strong commitment to quality and a comprehensive calibration and compliance program. 

The approximate percentage of our Service revenue by industry type for the periods indicated are as follows: 

FY 2016 &#160; FY 2015 &#160; FY 2014 Life Science/FDA-regulated &#160; &#160; 39 % &#160; 32 % &#160; 34 % &#160; Industrial Manufacturing 24 % 29 % &#160; 28 % Energy/Utilities 7 % 8 % &#160; 8 % Chemical Manufacturing 6 % 7 % 7 % Other 24 % 24 % 23 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 

Competition 

The calibration services industry is highly fragmented and is composed of companies ranging from internationally recognized and accredited corporations, such as Transcat, to non-accredited, sole proprietors as well as companies that perform their own calibrations in-house, resulting in a tremendous range of service levels and capabilities. A large percentage of calibration companies are small businesses that generally do not have a range of capabilities as broad as ours. There are also several companies with whom we compete that have national or regional operations. We differentiate ourselves from our competitors by demonstrating our commitment to quality, offering a broad suite of services, having a wide range of capabilities that are tailored to the markets we serve, and having a geographical footprint that spans North America. Customers see the value in using our unique CalTrak&#174; Online and C3&#153; asset and data management programs to monitor their instrument&#146;s status, history and performance data. We believe we are fundamentally different from most of our competitors, because we have the ability to bundle product, calibration, laboratory instrument and other services in a value-added manner, allowing our customers to utilize a single source. 

Competition for laboratory instrument services is composed of both small local and regional service providers and large multi-national OEMs. We believe we are generally financially stronger, service a larger customer base and are typically able to offer a larger suite of services than many of the small local and regional competitors. The large OEMs may offer specialized services and brand-specific expertise which we do not offer, but they are generally focused on providing specialized services only for their proprietary brands and product lines, rather than servicing an array of brands and product lines as we do. We believe our competitive advantages in the laboratory instrument services market are our financial and technical resources, turnaround time, and flexibility to react quickly to customers&#146; needs. The breadth of our suite of laboratory instrument service, combined with our calibration service offerings, also differentiates us from our competitors by allowing us to be our customers&#146; one-source accredited provider for their entire calibration and compliance programs. 

Quality 

The accreditation process is the only system currently in existence that validates measurement competence. To ensure that the quality and consistency of our customer calibrations are consistent with the global metrology network, designed to standardize measurements worldwide, we have sought and achieved international levels of quality and accreditation. Our Calibration Service Centers are accredited to ISO/IEC 17025:2005 by National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program (&#147;NVLAP&#148;) and other accrediting bodies. These accrediting bodies are signatories to the International Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation (&#147;ILAC&#148;), are proficient in the technical aspects of the chemistry and physics that underlie metrology, and provide an objective, third-party, internationally accepted evaluation of the quality, consistency, and competency of our calibration processes. Accreditation also requires that all measurement standards used for accredited measurements have a fully documented path, known as Metrological Traceability, through the National Institute of Standards and Technology or the National Research Council (these are the National Measurement Institutes for the United States and Canada, respectively), or to other national or international standards bodies, or to measurable conditions created in our Calibration Service Center, or accepted fundamental and/or natural physical constants, ratio type of calibration, or by comparison to consensus standards, all inclusive of measurement uncertainties. Acquired calibration labs might use other quality registration systems. We continually evaluate when to integrate acquired quality systems with the focus on minimizing business disruptions and disruptions to our customers. 

The importance of this international oversight to our customers is the assurance that our service documentation will be accepted worldwide, removing one of the barriers to trade that they may experience if using a non-ILAC traceable calibration service provider. To provide the widest range of services to our customers in our target markets, our ISO/IEC 17025:2005 accreditations extend across many technical disciplines, including working-level and reference-level capabilities. We believe our scope of accreditation to ISO/IEC 17025:2005 to be the broadest for the industries we serve. 

Our scopes of accreditation can be found at http://www.transcat.com/calibration-services/accreditation/calibration-lab-certificates . 

Distribution Segment 

Summary 

Our customers use test and measurement instruments to ensure that their processes, and ultimately their end products, are within specification. Utilization of such diagnostic instrumentation also allows for continuous improvement processes to be in place, increasing the accuracies of their measurements. The industrial test and measurement instrumentation market, in those geographic areas where we predominately operate, has historically been serviced by broad-based national equipment distributors and niche or specialty-focused organizations such as Transcat. We offer value-added services such as calibration/certification of equipment purchases, equipment rentals, used equipment for sale, and equipment kitting. In recent years, online-based distributors have become more prevalent. To more effectively compete with these online-based distributors, we have continued to make improvements to our website, and have added enhanced e-commerce capabilities. 

Most industrial customers find that maintaining an in-house inventory of back-up test and measurement instruments is cost prohibitive. As a result, the distribution of test and measurement instrumentation has traditionally been characterized by frequent, small-quantity orders combined with a need for rapid, reliable, and complete order fulfillment. The majority of the products we distribute are not consumables, but are purchased as replacements, upgrades, or for expansion of manufacturing and research and development facilities. As a result, we evaluate Distribution sales trends over a twelve-month period, as any individual month&#146;s or quarter&#146;s sales can be impacted by numerous factors, many of which are unpredictable and potentially non-recurring. 

We believe that a customer chooses a distributor based on a number of different criteria, including the timely delivery and accuracy of orders, consistent product quality, the technical competence of the representative serving them, value-added services, and price. The decision to buy is generally made by plant engineers, quality managers, or their purchasing personnel, and products are typically obtained from one or more distributors. Our on-line presence including our website and e-newsletters, Master Catalog, supplemental mailings, and other sales and marketing activities are designed to create demand and maintain a constant presence in front of our customers to ensure we receive the order when they are ready to purchase. 

We provide our customers with value-added services including technical support, to ensure our customers receive the right product for their specific need, and the option to have calibration service performed on their new product purchases prior to shipment. We also offer online procurement, same day shipment of in-stock items, kitted products, the option to rent, training programs and a variety of custom product offerings. Items are regularly added to and deleted from our product offerings on the basis of customer demand, recommendations of suppliers, sales volumes and other factors. Because of the breadth of our product and service offerings, we are often a &#147;one-stop shop&#148; for our customers who gain operational efficiency by dealing with just one distributor for most or all of their test and measurement instrumentation needs. 

Over the last several fiscal quarters, we have experienced a gradual decline in sales in our Distribution segment. We have attributed this decline to continued competitive pressures as well as the recessionary conditions experienced in U.S. industrial output in general and in the oil and gas industry in particular. To mitigate the impact of competition and recessionary market conditions, we have expanded our sales offerings of calibrated new equipment and forayed into the equipment rental and used equipment sales markets organically and acquisitively, through the acquisition of Excalibur. We will continue to use these and other efforts to bolster sales in the Distribution segment in an effort to stabilize the recent unpredictability and uncertainty of the Distribution segment. 

Marketing and Sales 

We market, create demand and sell to our customers through multiple sales channels consisting of direct marketing, our website, web-based advertising, proactive outbound sales and an inbound call center. Our outbound and inbound sales teams are staffed with technically trained personnel who are available to help guide product selection. Customers may also purchase products through our website at www.transcat.com . Our website serves as a sales channel for our products and services, and provides search capability, detailed product information, in-stock availability, selection guides, demo videos and downloadable product specification sheets. We have made investments in our website to implement the latest marketing technologies which allow us to provide an intuitive customer experience, with simple product comparison and quoting, ease at checkout and automated post-order follow-up. 

Through our Master Catalog, periodic supplemental catalogs, website, e-newsletters, and other direct sales and marketing programs, we offer our customers a broad selection of highly recognized branded products at competitive prices. The instruments typically range in price from $100 to over $25,000. 

During fiscal year 2016, we circulated over 1.1 million pieces of direct marketing materials including catalogs, brochures, supplements and other promotional materials. We also disseminated approximately 7.5 million e-newsletters to our existing and prospective customers. Some of the key factors that determine the number of catalogs and other direct marketing materials sent to each customer include relevancy of new product introductions, the customer&#146;s market segments and purchase history. 

As a result of strong relationships with our product vendors and our historical performance of effectively marketing, we have the opportunity to carry out co-branded marketing initiatives, aimed at our existing customers and our prospective customer base, for which we receive cooperative advertising support. These co-branded marketing initiatives typically feature specific vendors, new products or targeted product categories and take the form of direct mailers, web-based initiatives or outbound sales efforts. 

The acquisition of Excalibur in April 2016 brings us a network of experienced independent sales representatives who are currently focused on selling new and used equipment and equipment rentals, but who also will have the ability to sell our comprehensive suite of calibration services. 

Competition 

The distribution market for industrial test and measurement instrumentation is fragmented and highly competitive. Our competitors range from large national distributors and manufacturers that sell directly to customers to small local distributors. In addition, web-based distributors have become more prevalent in recent years and are increasing their market share. Key competitive factors typically include customer service and support, quality, lead time, inventory availability, brand recognition and price. To address our customers&#146; needs for technical support and product application assistance, and to differentiate ourselves from competitors, we employ a staff of highly trained technical sales specialists. In order to maintain this competitive advantage, technical training is an integral part of developing our sales staff. 

Recently online competitors have emerged as a significant source of competition in the marketplace for some of the test and measurement instruments we sell. While online competitors lack the value-added services we offer in our Distribution segment, they have been successful in capturing some market share in the worldwide market for test and measurement instruments. To stay ahead of growing competition from these online distributors and the general trend of increased use of e-commerce, we continue to make improvements to our website design and functionality. Improvements made to our website are focused around enhancing customer experience through ease of use, better browsing and search functions, increased relevant and unique content as well as recommendations for complementary products and services. 

Suppliers and Purchasing 

We believe that effective purchasing is a key element to maintaining and enhancing our position as a provider of high quality test and measurement instruments. We frequently evaluate our purchase requirements and suppliers&#146; offerings to obtain products at the best possible cost. We obtain our products from approximately 425 suppliers of brand name and private-labeled equipment. In fiscal year 2016, our top 10 vendors accounted for approximately 61% of our aggregate Distribution business. Approximately one-third of our product purchases on an annual basis are from Fluke Electronics Corporation (&#147;Fluke&#148;), which we believe to be consistent with Fluke&#146;s share of the markets we serve. 

We plan our product mix and inventory stock to best serve the anticipated needs of our customers, whose individual purchases vary in size. We can usually ship our top selling products to our customers the same day they are ordered. 

Vendor Rebates 

We have agreements with certain product vendors that provide for rebates based on meeting a specified cumulative level of purchases and/or incremental distribution sales. These rebates are recorded as a reduction of cost of distribution sales. Purchase rebates are calculated and recorded quarterly based upon our volume of purchases with specific vendors during the quarter. Point of sale rebate programs that are based on year-over-year sales performance on a calendar year basis are recorded as earned, on a quarterly basis, based upon the estimated level of annual achievement. Point of sale rebate programs that are based on year-over-year sales performance on a quarterly basis are recorded as earned in the respective quarter. 

Operations 

Our distribution operations primarily take place within our 37,250 square-foot facility in Rochester, New York and a 12,600 square-foot facility in Portland, Oregon. The Rochester location also serves as our corporate headquarters, houses our customer service, sales and administrative functions, and is a Calibration Service Center. The Portland location also is a Calibration Service Center. In fiscal year 2016, we shipped approximately 31,000 product orders, in the aggregate, from both locations. We also have two smaller warehouse facilities in Wisconsin that fulfill orders for certain large industrial scales. 

Distribution 

We distribute our products throughout North America and internationally. We maintain appropriate inventory levels in order to satisfy anticipated customer demand for prompt delivery and complete order fulfillment of their product needs. These inventory levels are managed on a daily basis with the aid of our sophisticated purchasing and stock management information system. Our systems facilitate prompt and accurate order fulfillment and freight manifesting. 

Backlog 

Distribution orders include orders for instruments that we routinely stock in our inventory, customized products, and other products ordered less frequently, which we do not stock. Pending product shipments are primarily backorders, but also include products that are requested to be calibrated in one of our Calibration Service Centers prior to shipment, orders required to be shipped complete or at a future date, and other orders awaiting final credit or management review prior to shipment. Our total backlog was $3.0 million and $3.2 million as of March 26, 2016 and March 28, 2015, respectively. 

CUSTOMER SERVICE AND SUPPORT 

Key elements of our customer service approach are our field sales team, outbound sales team, account management team, inbound sales and customer service organization. To ensure the quality of service provided, we frequently monitor our customer service through customer surveys, call monitoring and daily statistical reports. 

Customers may place orders via: 

&#9679; Mail to Transcat, Inc., 35 Vantage Point Drive, Rochester, NY 14624; &#160; 

&#9679; Fax at 1-800-395-0543; &#160; 

&#9679; Telephone at 1-800-828-1470; &#160; 

&#9679; Email at sales@transcat.com ; or &#160; 

&#9679; Online at transcat.com . 

INFORMATION REGARDING EXPORT SALES 

In fiscal years 2014 through 2016, approximately 10% of our total revenue resulted from sales to customers outside the United States. Of those export sales in fiscal year 2016, approximately 14% were denominated in U.S. dollars and the remaining 86% were in Canadian dollars. Our revenue is subject to the customary risks of operating in an international environment, including the potential imposition of trade or foreign exchange restrictions, tariff and other tax increases, fluctuations in exchange rates and unstable political situations, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, balance sheet or results of operations. See &#147;Foreign Currency&#148; in Item 7A. of Part II and Note 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in this report for further details. 

INFORMATION SYSTEMS 

We utilize a turnkey enterprise software solution from Infor, Inc. (&#147;Infor&#148;) called Application Plus to manage our business and operations segments. This software includes a suite of fully integrated modules to manage our business functions, including customer service, warehouse management, inventory management, financial management, customer relations management and business intelligence. This solution is a fully mature business package and has been subject to more than 20 years of refinement. We utilize customer relationship management (&#147;CRM&#148;) software offered by SalesForce.com, Inc., which is strategically partnered with Infor, allowing us to fully integrate the CRM software with our Infor enterprise software. 

We also utilize CalTrak&#174;, our proprietary document and asset management system, to manage documentation, workflow and customers&#146; assets within and amongst most of our Calibration Service Centers. In addition to functioning as an internal documentation, workflow, and asset management system, CalTrak&#174;, through CalTrak&#174; Online and C3&#153;, provides customers with web-based calibration cycle management service and access to documentation relating to services completed by Transcat. Certain recent acquisitions utilize either third-party or their own proprietary calibration management systems. We continually evaluate when to integrate these acquired systems with a focus on obtaining operational synergies while imposing minimal disruption to customers. 

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 

We have federally registered trademarks for Transcat&#174; and CalTrak&#174;, which we consider to be of material importance to our business. The registrations for these trademarks encompass multiple classes, and the registrations are in good standing with the U.S. Patent &#38; Trademark Office. Our CalTrak&#174; trademark is also registered in Canada for one class with the Canada Intellectual Property Office. Our trademark registrations must be renewed at various times, and we intend to renew our trademarks, as necessary, for the foreseeable future. 

In addition, we own www.transcat.com and www.transcat.ca . As with phone numbers, we do not have and cannot acquire any property rights to an Internet address. The regulation of domain names in the United States and in other countries is also subject to change. Regulatory bodies could establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we might not be able to maintain our domain names or obtain comparable domain names, which could harm our business. 

SEASONALITY 

Our business has certain historical seasonal factors. Historically, our fiscal third and fourth quarters have been stronger than our fiscal first and second quarters due to operating cycles of our industrial sector customers. 

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS 

We believe that we are in compliance with federal, state, or local provisions relating to the protection of the environment, and that continued compliance will not have any material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. 

EMPLOYEES 

At the end of fiscal year 2016, we had 537 employees, including 11 part-time employees, compared with 443 employees, including 16 part-time employees, at the end of fiscal year 2015. 

MANAGEMENT TEAM 

The following table presents certain information regarding our management team, including our executive officers and certain key employees as of March 26, 2016: 

Name &#160; Age &#160; Position Lee D. Rudow 51 President and Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer John J. Zimmer 57 &#160;(retired effective March 27, 2016) Vice President of Finance (Chief Financial Officer effective Michael J. Tschiderer 56 March 27, 2016) Jennifer J. Nelson 45 Vice President of Human Resources Michael W. West 45 Vice President of Inside Sales and Marketing Scott D. Sutter 45 Vice President of Business Development Robert A. Flack 46 Vice President of Operations Scott D. Deverell 50 Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and, therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;). Such reports may be read and copied at the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. Additionally, the SEC maintains a website (sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy statements and other information for registrants that file electronically. 

We maintain a website at transcat.com . We make available, free of charge, in the Investor Relations section of our website, documents we file with or furnish to the SEC, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports. We make this information available as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish such information to, the SEC. The other information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. 

We also post on our website our board of directors&#146; committee charters (audit committee, compensation committee and corporate governance and nominating committee) and Code of Ethics. Copies of such documents are available in print at no charge to any shareholder who makes a request. Such requests should be made to our corporate secretary at our corporate headquarters, 35 Vantage Point Drive, Rochester, New York 14624. 

