 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Business Development 

On February 24, 2015, we filed a Form 8-A Registration Statement with the SEC, and we are now required to file reports under Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#147;Exchange Act&#148;); and our directors, officers, 10% and 5% shareholders are required to file beneficial ownership reports with the SEC on applicable Forms.

Introduction 

On June 13, 2012, we were formed as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Geo Point Technologies, Inc., a Utah corporation (&#147;Geo Point Utah&#148;), and into which Geo Point Utah simultaneously authorized the conveyance of the segment of its business comprising all of its Environmental and Engineering Divisions&#146; assets, business, operations, rights or otherwise, along with its &#147;Hydrocarbon Identification Technology&#148; (&#147;HI Technology&#148;) License Agreement dated January 31, 2008 (the &#147;License Agreement&#148;), subject to the assumption by us of all related liabilities and the indemnification of Geo Point Utah by us from any liabilities relating to these assets and operations. Also on June 13, 2012, the Board of Directors of Geo Point Utah approved a stock dividend that resulted in a spin-off of all of our shares of common stock to the Geo Point Utah stockholders, pro rata, on a one share for one share basis, on the record date (the &#147;Spin-Off&#148;). The Spin-Off had a record date of January 17, 2013; and ex-dividend date of January 15, 2013; and a Spin-Off payment date of April 22, 2013. On the effective date of the Spin-Off, there were approximately 1,002,167 outstanding shares of our common stock. For additional information about the Spin-Off, see our Prospectus dated January 7, 2013, and filed with the SEC on January 8, 2013; and our 8-K Current Report dated April 22, 2013, and filed with the SEC on such date. See Part IV, Item 15. 

The Environmental and Engineering Divisions comprised the initial operations of Geo Point Utah at its inception and were commenced as a &#147;DBA&#148; in 1997, by Geo Point Utah&#146;s founder, William C. Lachmar, our President and sole director, in the State of California, where these business operations are presently conducted by us. 

Business 

Our business is primarily comprised of services related to identifying any recognized environmental condition (&#147;REC&#148;) or the lack thereof as provided by the federal, state or local governmental agencies in any real property of 

any owner, potential owner or lender, governmental agency or other person that may have a concern or may have or be seeking an interest in the subject property. Once our services are engaged, we contract with a drilling company to drill into the ground locations selected by us to collect a physical soil sample; if the project is small and can be handled by our smaller drilling equipment, this service is not contracted out. Once the soil sample is obtained, it is submitted to a State of California certified laboratory for analysis of the existence of hazardous materials. Based upon the laboratory&#146;s analysis, William C. Lachmar, our President, who is a Licensed Professional Geologist in Texas and California, prepares a written report that is sanctioned by the particular laboratory that conducted the analysis. Mr. Lachmar&#146;s licensing as a &#147;Professional Geologist&#148; is a requirement to prepare any such report. If an REC is identified to exist, then we will provide project management and engineering conclusions and recommendations necessary to remediate the property and bring it back into regulatory compliance based upon the California tables of acceptable levels of product contamination. Acceptable levels are further qualified based upon residential, commercial and industrial zoned properties, with the residential levels being the most stringent. Examples of contaminations that result in concern include those that are inadvertently or otherwise inoculated into the shallow subsurface soils or groundwater, like gasoline, diesel fuel, dry cleaning fluid, rocket fuel, arsenic, mercury, lead and other toxic substances. These services are basically the same in each project: examine the property; drill or have it drilled for soil samples; submit the soil samples to a State of California certified laboratory; prepare a report on the soil samples; and if an REC is found to exist, provide the described services, directly or through subcontractors, by or under the supervision of Mr. Lachmar. Sometimes, we merely assess the environmental impact of any hazardous materials found and prepare the requested report. 

We have provided consulting and compliance services for new utility installation and general site erosion control for housing tracts and updating service station underground storage tanks and fuel dispensing systems to comply with continually changing California Air Resources Board (&#147;CARB&#148;) regulations. Other engineering services provided are for soil dewatering for underground structure installations and small demolition and construction work. These &#147;utility landing&#148; services comprise subsurface trench work where underground utilities are installed such as electrical, fiber optic, water and gas. The other engineering services are for gasoline service stations where updated monitoring equipment must be installed or the monitoring equipment shows an error code that needs to be corrected before the gas station can begin to pump gas again; or where more crash posts must be installed around a propane tank, other fuel or similar dispenser island or a like setting. Other engineering services are to plan and construct dewatering systems for the install of subsurface structures such as underground parking lots, underground storage tanks, etc. that are placed within a shallow groundwater zone and must be dewatered prior to construction, and &#147;closure&#148; of underground water treatment systems where a manufacturing plant has underground processed water systems that treat their production waste water streams prior to discharge to the common sewer system. Light construction work consists of tenant improvement build-outs and small American Disabilities Act (ADA), compliance issues such as wheelchair access ramp construction, hand rail design and installation, parking area upgrades and other related matters. 

In addition to these business operations, we have been attempting to fund additional research of the HI Technology (as defined below), without success to date.

Principal Products or Services and their Markets 

Our services generally include:

&#183;

Construction and Emergency Response;

&#183;

Demolition, Remediation and Restoration;

&#183;

Subsurface Investigation;

&#183;

Water and Wastewater Treatment;

&#183;

Engineering and Environmental Consulting;

&#183;

Environmental Permitting and Compliance; and

&#183;

Litigation Support.

Distribution Methods of the Products or Services 

We do not advertise our services in any publications, and we rely primarily on past customers for repeat business, including large property management companies, wholesale fuel distributors and automobile dealers, among others, for referrals. Most of our referrals come from two long standing clients; or three major commercial real estate management companies in California; or two health specialists to whom we pay commissions for referrals.

Typically, a client contacts us about an environmental related issue on a particular parcel of real property. The client could be the property owner or lender, seeking information on whether there is an adverse environmental issue related to the real property, and if so, how it can be remediated; or a prospective purchaser of the particular parcel of real property or a governmental agency, seeking similar information. We receive contacts on properties that have known contamination and those desiring to determine if there is any contamination. If engaged, we develop an environmentally sound investigation to be conducted under our direction as a HAZ-MAT (a toxic material that is radioactive, flammable, explosive or poisonous, among others, that would be a danger to life or to the environment if released without the necessary precautions) specialist contractor with a Licensed Professional Geologist on staff, like our President, William C. Lachmar. Once the investigational strategy is developed, and we are engaged, necessary soil samples are taken and submitted by us to a California Certified Environmental Laboratory.

All field work that requires a drill rig is subcontracted, though some drill work can be hand drilled through the use of a rotor hammer, which is operated by Mr. Lachmar.

All chemicals required for our services are supplied by subcontractors and are readily available; we do not store any regulated chemicals or waste at our facilities; nor do we manufacture any such products.

We have no real suppliers of products other than some environmental hand held equipment that is competitively marketed by numerous distributors, and there is little chance that any equipment that is necessary to conduct our environmental services would not be available to rent or purchase.

Status of any Publicly Announced New Product or Service 

We have not had any recent public announcement of any new product or service.

Competitive Business Conditions and Smaller Reporting 

Company&#146;s Competitive Position in the Industry and Methods of Competition 

Our competitors include mostly large and well funded entities whose businesses and subsidiaries focus solely on the industries in which we operate. In this respect, we are at a distinct disadvantage to these competitors. Our services may be limited to smaller projects by reason of our limited financial resources and staff. We believe our competitive position in this industry as a whole is not presently significant.

We also believe our fees for these services are usually lower than what the larger companies in this industry charge for similar services because of our lower overhead costs; and our lower costs for professional oversight, which is provided by our President, Mr. Lachmar. With just one employee, who overseas our projects, the number of projects we can handle at one time is limited, based upon oversight requirements.

Our principal competitors are AECOM Technology Corporation, URS, Kleinfelter, Levine Fricke, CH2M Hill Companies, Ltd., The Reynolds Group and Geosyntec, most all of which are larger, well financed multinational publicly-held companies or are divisions or subsidiaries of large, well financed multinational companies.

Seasonal Nature of Our Business 

The second quarter of our fiscal year (July 1 to September 30) is typically our strongest quarter. The U.S. federal government has historically authorized more work during the period preceding the end of its fiscal year, September 30. In addition, many U.S. state governments with fiscal years ending on June 30 have historically accelerated spending during the fiscal first quarter when new funding budgets become available. There is no assurance that this trend will continue.

Insurance and Risk Management 

Risk management is an integral part of our project management approach and our project execution process. We maintain insurance covering professional liability and claims involving bodily injury and property damage, with a maximum of $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 in the aggregate. We consider our present limits of coverage, deductibles and reserves to be more than adequate for our present business operations, based upon our assessment of the small number (one claim during the past two fiscal years and to the date hereof) of past claims made against us; this particular claim was resolved for approximately $2,800. Wherever possible, we endeavor to eliminate or reduce the risk of loss on a project through the use of quality assurance/control, risk management, workplace safety and similar methods. Our subcontractors are also all required to maintain adequate insurance on our projects.

Dependence on One or a Few Major Customers 

During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, services provided to two customers accounted for 42.8% and 42.0% of total revenues. One of these customers, which represented 42.0%, is a related party (see Note 7 of our audited financial statements that accompany this Annual Report for additional information, in Part II, Item 8, below). During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, services provided to three customers accounted for 40.7%, 36.3% and 18.1%. One of these customers, which represented 40.7%, is a related party (see Note 7 of our audited financial statements that accompany this Annual Report for additional information, in Part II, Item 8, below). Management believes the loss of these customers would have a material adverse impact on the Company.

Patents, Trademarks, Licenses, Franchises, Concessions, 

Royalty Agreements or Labor Contracts, including Duration 

We are a California General Engineering, Construction and Hazardous Materials consulting company.

We do not hold any patents; however, we have proprietary technology applications related to our hydrocarbon- indicating methods and technology (the &#147;HI Technology&#148;), which was developed and licensed by Mr. Lachmar to our predecessor parent, Geo Point Utah, and assigned to us on our formation on June 13, 2012.

The material terms of the License Agreement are as follows:

Mr. Lachmar granted to us an exclusive, world-wide license to use the HI Technology for commercial exploitation, including subleasing the HI Technology to other parties. 

The intellectual property associated with the HI Technology, as well as any additional related intellectual property developed by Mr. Lachmar, is included within the scope of the license. Currently, the intellectual property is maintained as trade secrets and protected by the confidentiality provisions of the License Agreement; however, any patents, trademarks or copyrights or applications therefor, related to the HI Technology, will also be included within the scope of the License Agreement. 

Upon execution of the License Agreement, Geo Point Utah, the original licensee under the License Agreement, paid Mr. Lachmar a one-time license fee of $125,000. Except as otherwise provided therein and as discussed below, the License Agreement is irrevocable.

Mr. Lachmar retained the right to exploit the Hi Technology and processes. 

The License Agreement may be terminated by either party, subject to a 60-day notice period, upon a breach of the License Agreement that remains uncured during the notice period. 

The License Agreement may be terminated by Mr. Lachmar in the event we become insolvent or unable to pay our debts as they come due, become the subject of a bankruptcy proceeding (voluntary or involuntary), other than a reorganization, or enter into a general assignment for the benefit of our creditors. 

The HI Technology underlying the License Agreement, which is related to petroleum geology, has not been promoted to customers and requires substantial research and development of hydrocarbon-indicating methods and technology. No funds were expended for research and development of the HI Technology during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016, and 2015. We intend to use our proprietary HI Technology, if we are successful in its further development and commercialization, to become a competitor in the oil and gas exploration services industry.

Following such research and development, as we enter the commercialization stage of the HI Technology development, we must acquire projects and business opportunities that build the credibility of the HI Technology and develop our ability to deliver quality oil and gas exploration prospect areas. Substantial additional funding will be required for research and development respecting the efficacy of the HI Technology to locate oil and gas prospect areas. It is estimated that approximately $15,000 will be needed for laboratory equipment to analyze attendant microwaves produced by the attendant process; and that an additional sum of approximately $80,000 will be needed for testing and software development for fast video processing boards. Even then, assuming the HI Technology functions as hoped, the process to determine the best locations to drill for oil and gas will take about two years, after recording data and quantifying it, following the examination of zones or areas in oil and gas fields that are known to have oil and gas reserves. The professional we had intended to utilize for our research and development of this technology has been and continues to be seriously ill. We are attempting to find another person whom we believe has the qualifications necessary to assist in the research and development of this technology; however, with funding constraints, it is not anticipated that this research and development will begin in the near future. These plans have been in place for the past three fiscal years, and we have not make any progress by reason of our inability to raise the capital necessary for our development of this technology.

Need for any Governmental Approval of Principal Products or Services 

We have the necessary licenses and qualifications, singly or through our subcontractors, to conduct our business operations, without government approval, except to the extent of compliance with applicable governmental regulations related to our business, which are summarized below under the heading &#147;Effect of Existing or Probable Governmental Regulations on Our Business,&#148; below.

Effect of Existing or Probable Governmental Regulations on the Business 

Federal and State Law 

We are regulated in a number of fields in which we operate. In the United States, we deal with numerous U.S. and California state governmental agencies and entities, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the Carpenter-Presley-Tanner Hazardous Substance Account Act (the &#147;California Superfund Act&#148;), the Porter-Cologne Water Quality Control Act (the &#147;California Water Control Act&#148;) and CARB. When working with these governmental agencies and entities, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of our contracts.

Risk assessment practices under these acts include the most current sound scientific methods for data evaluation, exposure assessment, toxicity assessment and risk characterization, documentation of all assumptions, methods, models and calculations used in the assessment including any health risk assessment. These assessments generally include: 

&#183;

Evaluation of risks posed by acutely toxic hazardous substances based on levels at which no known or anticipated adverse effects on health will occur, with an adequate margin of safety.

&#183;

Evaluation of risks posed by carcinogens or other hazardous substances that may cause chronic disease based on a level that does not pose any significant risk to health.

&#183;

Consideration of possible synergistic effects resulting from exposure to, or interaction with, two or more hazardous substances.

&#183;

Consideration of the effect of hazardous substances upon subgroups that comprise a meaningful portion of the general population, including, but not limited to, infants, children, pregnant women, the elderly, individuals with a history of serious illness, or other subpopulations, that are identifiable as being at greater risk of adverse health effects due to exposure to hazardous substances than the general population.

&#183;

Consideration of exposure and body burden level that alter physiological function or structure in a manner that may significantly increase the risk of illness and of exposure to hazardous substances in all media, including, but not limited to, exposures in drinking water, food, ambient and indoor air, and soil.

&#183;

If currently available scientific data is insufficient to determine the level of a hazardous substance at which no known or anticipated adverse effects on health will occur, with an adequate margin of safety, or the level that poses no significant risk to public health, the risk assessment prepared in conjunction with a response action taken or approved shall be based on the level that is protective of public health, with an adequate margin of safety. This level shall be based exclusively on public health considerations; shall, to the extent scientific data are available, take into account the factors set forth; and shall be based on the most current principles, practices and methods used by public health professionals who are experienced practitioners in the fields of epidemiology, risk assessment, fate and transport analysis, and toxicology.

Compliance with federal, state and local laws enacted for the protection of the environment has to date had no significant effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. These costs are an integral part of the services that we provide. In the future, compliance with environmental laws could materially adversely affect us. We will continue to monitor the impact of such laws on our business and will develop appropriate compliance programs.

Emerging Growth Company 

We are an &#147;emerging growth company&#148; as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or &#147;JOBS Act.&#148; As long as we remain an &#147;emerging growth company,&#148; we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not an &#147;emerging growth company,&#148; like those applicable to a &#147;smaller reporting company,&#148; including, but not limited to, a scaled down description of our business in SEC filings; no requirements to include risk factors in the Exchange Act filings; no requirement to include certain selected financial data and supplementary financial information in SEC filings; not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements that we file under the Exchange Act; no requirement for Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404(b) auditor attestations of internal control over financial reporting; and exemptions from the requirements of holding an annual nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and seeking nonbinding shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We are also only required to file audited financial statements for the previous two fiscal years when filing registration statements, together with reviewed financial statements of any applicable subsequent quarter.

We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an &#147;emerging growth company.&#148; We can remain an &#147;emerging growth company&#148; for up to five years. We would cease to be an &#147;emerging growth company&#148; prior to such time if we have total annual gross revenues of $1 billion or more and when we become a &#147;larger accelerated filer,&#148; have a public float of $700 million or more or we issue more than $1 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period.

Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can also delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.

Smaller Reporting Company 

We became subject to the reporting requirements of Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, subject to the disclosure requirements of Regulation S-K of the SEC, as a &#147;smaller reporting company,&#148; on the effective date of our Registration Statement. The designation of being a &#147;smaller reporting company&#148; relieves us of some of the more detailed informational requirements of Regulation S-K. See the heading &#147;Emerging Growth Company&#148; directly above for a brief summary of some of the principal reduced requirements available to a &#147;smaller reporting company.&#148;

Sarbanes/Oxley Act 

We are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes/Oxley Act created a strong and independent accounting oversight board to oversee the conduct of auditors of public companies and strengthens auditor independence. It also requires steps to enhance the direct responsibility of senior members of management for financial reporting and for the quality of financial disclosures made by public companies; establishes clear statutory rules to limit, and to expose to public view, possible conflicts of interest affecting securities analysts; creates guidelines for audit committee members&#146; appointment, compensation and oversight of the work of public companies&#146; auditors; management assessment of our internal controls; prohibits certain insider trading during pension fund blackout periods; requires companies and auditors to evaluate internal controls and procedures; and establishes a federal crime of securities fraud, among other provisions. Compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes/Oxley Act will substantially increase our legal and accounting costs.

Exchange Act Reporting Requirements 

Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act requires all companies that have filed a registration statement under the Securities Act to file annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q with the SEC for a period of one year from the effective date of the Registration Statement, and we will be required to timely disclose certain material events (e.g., changes in corporate control; acquisitions or dispositions of a significant amount of assets other than in the ordinary course of business; and bankruptcy) in a Current Report on Form 8-K. We intend to file a Form 8-A with the SEC before the expiration of this one year period so that we will become a &#147;reporting issuer&#148; under Section 13 of the Exchange Act.

Research and Development Costs during the Last Two Fiscal Years 

We had no research and development costs during our last two fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015.

Cost and Effects of Compliance with Environmental Laws 

We do not maintain any hazardous chemicals on-site, and those chemicals we utilize in our remediation services are shipped directly to the impacted site from the supplier of chemicals, with all the proper manifests by a certified Hazardous Materials transporter. These chemicals are available from a wide array of suppliers.

We neither store nor manufacture any materials that require us to maintain any federal, state or local permits. Accordingly, the cost and effects of compliance with environmental laws on our business is negligible.

Number of Total Employees and Number of Full-Time Employees 

We have only one employee, Mr. Lachmar, our President; our services are primarily subcontracted, and are performed under the supervision of Mr. Lachmar, a Registered Geologist in the States of California and Texas.

Additional Information 

You may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may also find all of the reports or registration statements that we have filed electronically with the SEC at its Internet site at www.sec.gov. Please call the SEC at 1-202-551-8090 for further information on this or other Public Reference Rooms. Our SEC reports and registration statements are also 

available from commercial document retrieval services, such as CCH Washington Service Bureau, whose telephone number is 1-800-344-3734.

