 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

Trevena, Inc. is a clinical stage biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and intends to commercialize therapeutics that use a novel approach to target G protein coupled receptors, or GPCRs. Unless the context otherwise requires, we use the terms "Trevena," "company," "we," "us" and "our" to refer to Trevena, Inc. 

Using our proprietary product platform, we have identified and are developing the following three differentiated product candidates: 

&#149; Oliceridine (TRV130): We are developing oliceridine as a first-line treatment for patients experiencing moderate to severe acute pain where IV administration is preferred. In January 2016, we initiated the Phase 3 clinical program for this compound with the enrollment of patients in an open label study to evaluate the safety and tolerability of oliceridine in patients with acute moderate-to-severe pain in a variety of clinical settings. We expect to initiate the pivotal Phase 3 studies for oliceridine in the second quarter of 2016 following our End of Phase 2 meeting with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. We have retained all worldwide development and commercialization rights to oliceridine, and plan to commercialize it in the United States for use in acute care settings such as hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers if it receives regulatory approval. In December 2015 and February 2016, we announced the FDA grant of Fast Track and Breakthrough Therapy designation, respectively, to oliceridine for the management of moderate-to-severe acute pain. &#149; TRV027: We are developing TRV027 for the treatment of acute heart failure, or AHF. In early 2014 we initiated a Phase 2b clinical trial of TRV027 (BLAST-AHF) for the treatment of AHF. Enrollment in this 620-patient study is complete and we expect to release top-line data in the second quarter of 2016. Allergan plc, or Allergan, holds an exclusive option to license TRV027, exercisable at any time through a specified time period after we deliver the data from the BLAST-AHF study to Allergan. &#149; TRV250: We are developing TRV250, a G protein biased ligand targeting the delta receptor, as a compound with potential first-in-class mechanism for the treatment of migraine. TRV250 also may have utility in a range of other central nervous system, or CNS, indications, and based on target selectivity it is not expected to have the addiction liability of &#181; opioid drugs like morphine or oxycodone. We have initiated preclinical development activities to support our anticipated submission of an investigational new drug application, or IND, to the FDA in the second half of 2016. In addition to the above three product candidates, we identified and have completed the Phase 1 program for TRV734, an orally administered clinical compound expected to be used for first-line treatment of moderate to severe acute and chronic pain. We intend to continue to focus our efforts for TRV734 on securing a worldwide development and commercialization partner for this asset. 

Our Pipeline 

CNS Portfolio 

Oliceridine (TRV130) 

Oliceridine (TRV130) is a novel &#181;-receptor G protein Pathway Selective or &#181;-GPS modulator that activates G protein, which is associated with analgesia, with low b -arrestin recruitment, which is associated with limiting opioid analgesia and with promoting opioid-induced respiratory depression and constipation. We are developing oliceridine as a first-line treatment for patients experiencing moderate to severe acute pain where IV administration is preferred. 

Disease and treatment options 

According to 2014 data from IMS Health, there were approximately 50 million hospital inpatient stays and outpatient visits during which reimbursement claims for injectable opioids were made. In terms of the total potential market opportunity, the World Health Organization estimates that over 230 million major surgical procedures are performed each year worldwide. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC, estimates that 100 million surgical and invasive diagnostic procedures occur annually in the United States and based on market research, we believe that more than 30 million hospital inpatient surgeries are performed collectively in France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy and Spain each year. Accordingly, if approved, we believe that there is a large potential commercial opportunity for oliceridine in the management of both surgical and medical acute pain. 

The typical treatment paradigm in developed markets for the management of moderate-to-severe acute pain is to initiate injectable or IV pain medication in the preoperative or immediate postoperative period to provide rapid and effective pain relief. As soon as it is safe and practical, a transition typically is made to oral pain medications. Conventional opioid analgesics such as morphine, fentanyl and hydromorphone are mainstays of pain management in the immediate postoperative period. Despite the development and adoption of guidelines for the management of postoperative pain and the extensive use of current treatments, significant unmet need remains. In a 2012 survey of 300 surgical patients in the United States, over 80% of patients reported postoperative pain after the first analgesic medication had been administered, and 40% of this pain was reported to be moderate or severe. In addition, the effectiveness of conventional opioid agonists is limited because of severe side effects such as respiratory depression, nausea, vomiting, and constipation. Injectable non-opioid analgesics are often used to supplement IV opioids for post-surgical pain management; however, these drugs, such as 

IV non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or NSAIDs, IV acetaminophen or local anesthetics such as bupivacaine, have potential cardiovascular, hepatic and gastrointestinal side effects. None of these non-opioid analgesic approaches has displaced the use of opioid analgesics as the cornerstone of IV therapy for acute moderate to severe pain. We believe that there remains significant unmet need for a more effective analgesic agent with an improved safety and tolerability profile for the management of moderate-to-severe acute pain. 

Key differentiating attributes of oliceridine 

We believe that oliceridine may offer several potential advantages over conventional IV opioid treatments for moderate-to-severe acute pain. Phase 2 data in post-surgical pain, Phase 1 data in experimental pain, and preclinical data all suggest that oliceridine may be able to rapidly and safely achieve superior pain relief with similar tolerability, or similar levels of pain relief with improved safety and tolerability&#151;depending on the dose administered&#151;compared to standard intravenous morphine use. If this profile is confirmed in further clinical trials, we believe that oliceridine may offer best-in-class analgesic efficacy, safety and tolerability, which could position it for broad use in moderate to severe acute surgical and medical pain states. 

Clinical development strategy and experience 

In January 2016 we initiated the Phase 3 clinical program for oliceridine with the enrollment of patients in the ATHENA-1 study. ATHENA-1 is a Phase 3 open label, multicenter study evaluating the safety and tolerability of oliceridine in approximately 900 patients. The study will enroll eligible patients with moderate to severe pain caused by medical conditions or surgery. Patients will be treated with oliceridine on an as-needed basis via IV bolus, patient-controlled analgesia, or PCA, administration, or both, as determined by the investigator. The primary objective is to assess the safety and tolerability of oliceridine. Pain intensity will be measured as a secondary endpoint. 

We expect to discuss our Phase 3 plans with the FDA at an End of Phase 2, or EoP2, meeting, which is scheduled to occur in the first quarter of 2016. At the EoP2 meeting, we will discuss the design and conduct of two adequate and well-controlled clinical studies&#151;one in patients after bunionectomy surgery, and one in patients after abdominoplasty surgery&#151;in which we expect a total of between 300 and 600 patients to be exposed to oliceridine. We expect to begin these studies in the second quarter of 2016. Based on recent draft guidance from the FDA on the development of analgesic drug products, we believe that these two studies, plus additional Phase 3 studies in which approximately 600 to 900 additional patients would be exposed to oliceridine will be sufficient for the FDA to review a new drug application, or NDA, for oliceridine. Assuming FDA's concurrence with these plans, we expect that top-line data from the pivotal trials will be available in the first quarter of 2017. If these trials are successful, we expect to submit an NDA for oliceridine to the FDA in the second half of 2017. 

In December 2015, the FDA granted Fast Track designation to oliceridine for the management of moderate-to-severe acute pain. The Fast Track program is designed to facilitate the development and review of drugs intended to treat serious conditions with unmet medical needs by providing sponsors with the opportunity for frequent interactions with the FDA. In February 2016, the FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy designation to oliceridine for the management of moderate-to-severe acute pain. Breakthrough Therapy designation is granted by the FDA to new therapies intended to treat serious conditions, and for which preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial clinical improvement over available therapies. Breakthrough Therapy designation provides all the benefits of the Fast Track program, as well as more intensive FDA guidance on preparing an efficient drug development program and eligibility for rolling review and priority review. 

We plan to initially target oliceridine for the management of moderate-to-severe acute pain where IV administration is preferred. In the future, we also may explore other dosage forms, such as transmucosal or transdermal administration for breakthrough or chronic pain, respectively, in additional separate trials. 

Phase 2b trial of oliceridine in acute postoperative pain following abdominoplasty 

The aim of our Phase 2b clinical trial was to evaluate oliceridine's efficacy, safety and tolerability in the management of postoperative pain using morphine as a benchmark, utilizing on-demand dosing to reflect standard clinical practice. This Phase 2b trial was a randomized, double-blind, placebo- and active-controlled trial of oliceridine in which we enrolled 200 patients with moderate to severe acute postoperative pain after abdominoplasty surgery. Two regimens of oliceridine were tested: the first consisted of a 1.5 mg intravenous loading dose with 0.1 mg self-administered on-demand doses as often as every six minutes using a PCA device; the second consisted of a 1.5 mg loading dose with 0.35 mg on-demand doses as often as every six minutes using a PCA device. A commonly used morphine PCA regimen also was tested, consisting of a 4 mg loading dose with 1 mg on-demand doses as often as every six minutes. Placebo was administered as a loading dose and on-demand doses were volume-matched to the active regimens. Rescue medication consisting of ibuprofen or oxycodone was used in all groups. 

In August 2015, we reported top-line results from this trial. Oliceridine demonstrated statistically significant pain reduction compared to placebo and comparable efficacy to morphine. Oliceridine provided rapid reduction in average pain scores, consistent with the previous Phase 2 trial where oliceridine showed more rapid onset of meaningful pain relief than morphine. Rescue analgesic use was similar for both oliceridine and morphine, and less than half the rate of rescue analgesic use for placebo. In this study, the oliceridine groups had a significantly lower prevalence (percentage of patients) of hypoventilation events (a measure of respiratory safety), nausea, and vomiting than the morphine group. The most frequently reported adverse events, or AEs, associated with oliceridine were nausea, vomiting, hypoventilation and headache. Opioid-related AEs were generally less frequent in the oliceridine groups compared to morphine. No drug-related serious adverse events were reported in the study. 

Phase 2a/b trial of oliceridine in acute postoperative pain following bunionectomy 

The aim of our Phase 2a/b clinical trial was to evaluate oliceridine's efficacy and tolerability in the management of postoperative pain using morphine as a benchmark, using fixed dose and dose interval to characterize the performance of oliceridine. The trial was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo- and active-controlled, multiple dose, adaptive trial in 333 women and men undergoing a primary unilateral first-metatarsal bunionectomy surgery at four sites in the United States. Patients were randomized after surgery to receive oliceridine, morphine or placebo to manage their pain. Pain intensity was measured using validated numeric rating scales ranging from ten (most severe pain) to zero (no pain) at multiple time points up to 48 hours. Based on these scales, analgesic efficacy was assessed with a time-weighted average change in pain score over 48 hours&#151;a well-established measure of changes in the intensity of pain over time and an FDA-recommended endpoint for pain studies. 

In November 2014, we announced top-line data from this trial. At doses of 2 mg and 3 mg of oliceridine administered every three hours, the trial achieved its primary endpoint of statistically greater pain reduction than placebo for 48 hours, which we believe demonstrates proof of concept for oliceridine. Over the 48-hour trial period, the 3 mg dose of oliceridine administered every three hours also showed statistically superior analgesic efficacy compared to the 4 mg dose of morphine administered every four hours. Additionally, in the first three hours of dosing, when pain was most severe, the 1 mg, 2 mg and 3 mg doses of oliceridine demonstrated superior analgesic efficacy in the 

trial compared to placebo, and the 2 mg and 3 mg doses of oliceridine demonstrated superior analgesic efficacy compared to the 4 mg dose of morphine. 

There were no serious adverse events reported in the trial. Both the 2 mg and 3 mg doses of oliceridine showed overall tolerability over the 48-hour trial period similar to that of the 4 mg dose of morphine administered every four hours. The most frequently reported adverse events associated with oliceridine were dizziness, headache, somnolence, nausea, vomiting, flushing and itching. Adverse effects were generally dose-related. 

Phase 1 clinical studies of oliceridine 

We have completed a number of Phase 1 clinical studies of oliceridine in more than 170 healthy subjects. These included two single ascending dose studies of oliceridine given as a 60 minute continuous infusion or a 2 minute bolus infusion that showed dose-related increases in plasma exposure and pupil constriction, a biomarker for CNS opioid activity across a range of doses that were generally well tolerated. Because in vitro data suggest that oliceridine is metabolized by at least two liver enzymes, CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, we assessed oliceridine pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, safety and tolerability in CYP2D6 "poor metabolizer" healthy volunteers with little to no CYP2D6 activity. This study showed that oliceridine clearance was reduced by approximately 50% in the poor metabolizers suggesting that a lower frequency of dosing may be required to offer effective pain relief. 

In 2013, we completed a Phase 1b proof of concept exploratory trial in healthy male subjects. The aims of this trial were to characterize the analgesic efficacy and safety and tolerability of a single dose of oliceridine as compared to a single 10 mg dose of morphine. We used a well-established evoked-pain model, the cold pain test, to evaluate the analgesic effects of oliceridine by measuring the time to hand removal, or latency, from a temperature-controlled cold water bath. At both the 3.0 mg and 4.5 mg doses, oliceridine showed superior efficacy as compared to a 10 mg morphine dose that was statistically significant with a p-value of less than 0.05 at the ten and 30 minute time points after dosing. The durability of the analgesic effect was similar to morphine. In addition, the time to peak effect was more rapid than that for morphine. Overall, oliceridine was well tolerated in the trial. Subjects receiving oliceridine showed less severe nausea and less frequent vomiting at the 1.5 mg and 3.0 mg doses as compared to a 10 mg dose of morphine. Oliceridine also showed less respiratory depression compared to morphine over 4 hours. 

In October 2014, we completed an adaptive, multiple ascending dose study of oliceridine in more than 50 healthy subjects. The safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics results of this study were consistent with the earlier Phase 1 studies described above. We also have successfully completed two Phase 1 studies of oliceridine, an absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion study and a QTc interval study. 

Commercialization 

We intend to build hospital commercial capabilities in the United States and retain full U.S. rights to oliceridine. We expect to seek collaborators to commercialize oliceridine outside the United States to offset risk and preserve capital. 

Manufacturing 

We have completed process development of the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, and have manufactured two batches at small scale under proposed commercial good manufacturing practices, or cGMP conditions. We also have completed the drug product process development and have manufactured one batch of drug product at small scale under proposed commercial cGMP conditions. Additional cGMP batches are in-process or planned to support the Phase 3 clinical program. Both API and drug product are manufactured by a single third party contract manufacturing vendor. The 

selection and qualification of second source contract manufacturing vendors for both API and drug product is currently underway. 

Competition 

If oliceridine is approved for IV management of moderate to severe acute pain, it will compete with widely used, currently marketed IV generic opioid analgesics, such as morphine, hydromorphone and fentanyl. The analgesic effectiveness of these agents is limited by well-known adverse side effects, such as respiratory depression, nausea, vomiting, constipation and post-operative ileus. Oliceridine also may compete against, or be used in combination with, OFIRMEV&#174;, marketed by Mallinckrodt plc, with EXPAREL&#174;, marketed by Pacira Pharmaceuticals, Inc., DYLOJECT&#153;, marketed by Pfizer Inc., and IONSYS&#174; marketed by The Medicines Company. Together with generic versions of NSAIDs such as ketorolac and diclofenac, and generic versions of local anesthetics such as bupivacaine, these non-opioid analgesics are currently used in combination with opioids in the multimodal management of moderate to severe acute pain. 

We are aware of a number of products in development that are aimed at improving the treatment of moderate to severe, acute pain. AcelRx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is developing a range of acute pain products involving sufentanil oral nanotabs in hand-held dispensers. Durect Corporation and Heron Therapeutics both have proprietary long-acting reformulations of bupivacaine in development. Recro Pharmaceuticals is developing an IV version of the NSAID meloxicam. Cara Therapeutics Inc. is developing an IV and oral peripherally restricted k -opioid receptor agonist, which has been administered in combination with &#181;-opioids in clinical trials. 

Intellectual property 

Our oliceridine patent portfolio is wholly owned by us. The portfolio includes one issued U.S. patent (U.S. Patent No. 8,835,488), which claims among other things, oliceridine, compositions comprising oliceridine and methods of using oliceridine. The portfolio also includes one U.S. patent application claiming oliceridine, other compounds and/or methods of making or using the same. The issued patent is expected to expire no earlier than 2032, subject to any disclaimers or extensions and any U.S. patent to issue in the future is also expected to expire no earlier than 2032, subject to any disclaimers or extensions. A related Patent Cooperation Treaty, or PCT, application was filed and national patent applications have been filed in South Korea, the European Patent Office, the Eurasian Patent Office, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Israel, India, Japan, China, Hong Kong and New Zealand. Any patents resulting from these national patent applications, if issued, are expected to expire no earlier than 2032, subject to any disclaimers or extensions. 

TRV250 

TRV250 is a small molecule G protein biased ligand of the d -opioid receptor in preclinical development. Based on the profile of TRV250, we believe it has the potential to be a first-in-class drug for the treatment of migraine. According to Decision Resources, a healthcare consulting company, the acute episodic migraine market encompassed approximately 12 million drug-treated patients in 2013 in the United States, representing approximately $2.2 billion of sales. We estimate that approximately 20% to 30% of these patients either do not respond to or cannot tolerate the market-leading triptan drug class, and an additional 30% would benefit from improved efficacy compared to these drugs. 

We believe our preclinical data support targeting the d -opioid receptor for the treatment of CNS disorders. Prior approaches to modulate this receptor have been limited by a significant risk of seizure associated with this target. By contrast, TRV250 is a potent d -opioid receptor ligand that displayed strong efficacy in animal models of migraine and other CNS disorders with reduced seizure liability through selectively activating G protein coupling without engaging b -arrestin. These in vivo data are 

further supported by data for d -agonists in b -arrestin knockout mice suggesting that b -arrestin plays a role in seizures. We are continuing preclinical work on TRV250 with the goal of submitting an IND to the FDA in the second half of 2016. In the future, we may decide to seek a collaborator for TRV250 with CNS development and commercialization expertise outside the United States. Phase 1 clinical trials could include electroencephalogram studies to specifically assess seizure liability. 

We have four provisional patent applications directed to compounds that modulate the d -opioid receptor. Three of the applications are solely owned by us and one is co-owned by us and Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, or Ligand. We have an exclusive worldwide, paid up, royalty-free license to any compound or method of use in the field of pharmaceuticals disclosed in the Ligand co-owned application. We expect that any compound that modulates the d -opioid receptor we choose to pursue under our development program would be covered by the applications solely owned by us. These applications are eligible for worldwide filing and may be used to establish non-provisional and national phase applications that, if issued, are predicted to expire no earlier than 2036, subject to any disclaimers or extensions. 

TRV734 

TRV734 is a small molecule &#181;-GPS that we discovered and have developed through Phase 1 as a first-line, orally administered compound for the treatment of moderate to severe acute and chronic pain. Like oliceridine, TRV734 takes advantage of a well-established mechanism of pain relief by targeting the &#181;-opioid receptor, but does so with enhanced selectivity for the G protein signaling pathway, which in preclinical studies was linked to analgesia, as opposed to the b -arrestin signaling pathway, which in preclinical studies was associated with side effects. Subject to successful preclinical and clinical development and regulatory approval, we believe TRV734 may have an improved efficacy and side effect profile as compared to current commonly prescribed oral analgesics, such as oxycodone. We intend to continue to focus our efforts for TRV734 on securing a worldwide development and commercialization partner for this asset. 

TRV734 has shown a similar profile to oliceridine in in vitro and in vivo studies. It is highly selective for the &#181;-opioid receptor where, like the most powerful opioid analgesics, it is a strong agonist of G protein coupling. TRV734 is distinct from those analgesics in its very weak recruitment of b -arrestins to the &#181;-opioid receptor. In our preclinical studies, TRV734 showed analgesic effects in preclinical pain models similar to oxycodone and morphine. In the same studies, TRV734 caused less constipation compared to equivalently analgesic doses of oxycodone and morphine. TRV734 is active after oral administration in mice and rats, has high oral bioavailability and has been well tolerated in non-human primates. 

We have completed three Phase 1 trials of TRV734 in healthy volunteers, including a single ascending dose study, a multiple ascending dose study, and a pharmacokinetic study. In these studies, a total of 127 healthy volunteers were exposed to TRV734 at doses between 2 mg and 250 mg. We incorporated measures to assess the potential for analgesic efficacy and tolerability advantages in these studies. Based on these data and data for oliceridine, we believe that TRV734 may offer an improved efficacy profile as compared to current opioid therapies or equivalent efficacy with an improved gastrointestinal, or GI, tolerability and respiratory safety profile. 

Our TRV734 patent portfolio is wholly owned by us and includes one issued U.S. patent (U.S. Patent No, 9,044,469) claiming TRV734, other compounds and/or methods of making or using the same. This patent is expected to expire no earlier than 2032, subject to any disclaimers or extensions. A related PCT application was filed and national patent applications have been filed in South Korea, the European Patent Office, the Eurasian Patent Office, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Israel, India, Japan, China, Hong Kong and New Zealand. Any patents resulting from these national patent applications, if issued, are predicted to expire no earlier than 2032, subject to any disclaimers or extensions. 

Cardiovascular Program 

TRV027 

TRV027 is a peptide b -arrestin biased ligand that targets the angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1R), inhibiting angiotensin II-mediated G protein signaling and activating b -arrestin signaling. We are developing TRV027 for the treatment of AHF in combination with standard diuretic therapy. In our Phase 2a clinical trial TRV027 rapidly reduced blood pressure and preserved renal, or kidney, function while preserving cardiac performance in advanced chronic heart failure patients. We have completed enrollment of a 620-patient Phase 2b clinical trial (BLAST-AHF) to evaluate the safety and efficacy of TRV027 in AHF and expect to announce top-line results of this trial in the second quarter of 2016. If our clinical development of TRV027 is successful and the product ultimately is approved by regulatory authorities we believe TRV027 would be used as a first-line in-hospital AHF treatment. We also believe TRV027 could improve AHF symptoms, shorten length of hospital stay and potentially lower readmission rates and mortality rates after hospital discharge. U.S. patents covering the composition of matter and method of use of TRV027 have issued and are expected to expire no earlier than 2031 and 2029, respectively. 

Disease and treatment options 

There are over 20 million people living with heart failure in the United States and Europe, according to the American Heart Association and the European Society of Cardiology. AHF, also sometimes referred to as acute decompensated heart failure, is heart failure requiring hospitalization. AHF patients present with fluid overload and severe dyspnea, a serious shortness of breath sometimes described as "drowning" leading to an inability to perform simple functions such as standing and walking short distances. AHF can also lead to organ disfuncation, including the kidneys and heart. Most patients experiencing an AHF event have a worsening of existing chronic heart failure, although an estimated 15%-20% of AHF hospitalizations represent new diagnoses of heart failure. 

According to the most recent National Hospital Discharge Survey data, in the United States there were over 5 million hospital discharges in 2010 where heart failure was listed as a component of the diagnosis, over 1 million of which listed heart failure as the primary diagnosis. Based on national hospital discharge statistics from the United States and Europe, we estimate approximately 2.6 million patients were hospitalized with a primary heart failure diagnosis in 2010. Despite long hospital stays, up to 50% of AHF patients remain symptomatic on discharge according to data from ADHERE, a national U.S. AHF registry. and the risk of readmission is 25% after 30 days. The one-year mortality rate for acute heart failure patients is approximately 30%. Combined, these poor outcomes result in a substantial burden to the healthcare system. In 2012, the American Heart Association estimated the annual direct medical cost of treating heart failure in the United States to be almost $21 billion. 

The current approach to treating patients with AHF involves facilitating the excretion of accumulated fluid with loop diuretics like furosemide; improving hemodynamics by reducing preload and afterload blood pressure with vasodilators like nitroglycerin; and directly stimulating the heart to contract more forcefully with inotropes like dobutamine. None of these approaches has been shown to greatly improve patient outcomes in AHF, and each therapy has specific adverse effects that limit its clinical utility. 

Key differentiating attributes of TRV027 

We believe that TRV027, when used with current standard of care, particularly loop diuretics like furosemide, will have advantages in both efficacy and safety compared to alternative therapies. Renin-angiotensin system (RAS) blockade has been shown to have morbidity and mortality benefits in chronic heart failure, and RAS is a mechanism central to AHF. We believe that TRV027, if approved, could be the first therapy to bring modulation of RAS to the acute hospital setting, and could improve patient 

symptoms and outcomes by rapidly lowering afterload and preload, sustaining cardiac output, and preserving kidney performance. In addition, we believe that administering TRV027 in combination with furosemide may allow furosemide to work more effectively without the negative consequences of RAS activation that has been shown to occur with loop diuretics. In clinical trials to date, TRV027 has been well-tolerated in healthy subjects and in patients with advanced chronic congestive heart failure, in each case at doses up to 20-fold higher than the expected efficacious dose. In preclinical toxicology studies, TRV027 had a favorable profile at doses up to 500 times the expected therapeutic dose. We believe that the risk of hypotension, which has limited the use of other vasodilators in AHF, is reduced for TRV027 based on its self-limiting effects on blood pressure seen in our Phase 2a trial, as well as its rapidly reversible effects seen clinically and preclinically, and because in our three completed clinical trials, TRV027 lowered blood pressure only in subjects with elevated measures of RAS activity, the target pathophysiology. This is important for any drug that is used in emergency rooms when the initial diagnosis may be uncertain. 

Clinical development strategy and experience 

The BLAST-AHF Phase 2b clinical trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of TRV027 in AHF is a randomized double-blind, placebo controlled trial comparing TRV027 plus standard of care to standard of care alone. The primary objective of this trial is to evaluate the effects of three doses of TRV027, 1 mg/hr, 5 mg/hr and 25 mg/hr, on a composite of clinically important outcomes: mortality, worsening heart failure, hospital readmission rate, dyspnea and length of hospital stay. We are targeting early administration of TRV027, ideally within six hours of arrival at the hospital. TRV027 will then continue to be administered for a minimum of 48 hours and up to 96 hours. We believe administration of TRV027 soon after hospital admission may improve in-hospital mortality rates and shorten length of hospital stay. We have enrolled patients with both low ejection fraction and preserved ejection fraction since RAS elevation is a key component of both conditions. 

We conducted a planned interim analysis, evaluating data from approximately 250 patients. Upon reviewing the data, the data safety monitoring board, or DSMB, and the BLAST-AHF Steering Committee recommended that future enrollment be weighted to the most promising dose of 5 mg/hr. We announced in March 2015 that remaining enrollment will be weighted 2:1:2:1 for placebo, 1 mg/hr, 5 mg/hr, and 25 mg/hr, respectively, and that we have increased target enrollment in the study from 500 patients to 620 patients. In addition, the DSMB and Steering Committee determined that patients with lower baseline systolic blood pressure could safely enroll in the study; inclusion criteria have been modified accordingly. Allergan, which holds an exclusive option to license TRV027, has fully funded the expansion of the study via a $10 million payment to Trevena to defray the external and internal costs of increasing the study sample size. The BLAST-AHF study conduct is nearly complete and we expect to release top-line data in the second quarter of 2016. 

We believe that an endpoint measuring dyspnea or worsening of heart failure during hospitalization in Phase 3 clinical trials could form the basis for FDA approval of TRV027. However, we believe the FDA may be open to other well-defined benefit parameters, such as a hospitalization benefit or a patient and caregiver quality of life benefit. The composite endpoint tested in Phase 2b will facilitate our evaluation of potential alternative proposals to be discussed with the FDA at an end-of-Phase 2 meeting. 

To date, we have completed three clinical trials of TRV027, each of which is described in more detail below: 

&#149; A Phase 2a clinical trial in medically fragile subjects with advanced stable heart failure, low ejection fraction and a clinical indication for right- heart catheterization. Ejection fraction is a measure of the volume of blood pumped by the heart. Right-heart catheterization is a procedure 9 

that allows measurement of intracardiac and intravascular pressures on the side of the heart leading to the lungs. 

&#149; A Phase 1b clinical trial in subjects with moderate heart failure and concomitant renal dysfunction. Selecting a stable population allowed us to directly measure renal plasma flow, or RPF, and glomerular filtration rate, or GFR, two common measures used to evaluate renal safety. &#149; A Phase 1 clinical trial in healthy subjects to evaluate pharmacokinetics and tolerability prior to moving into chronic stable heart failure subjects. Phase 2a hemodynamics trial in advanced stable heart failure subjects 

The primary objectives of this trial were to characterize the safety and tolerability of TRV027 in subjects with advanced stable heart failure and to measure its effects on blood circulation, also known as hemodynamics. Based on the preclinical and Phase 1 data, we were expecting the hemodynamic effects of TRV027 to depend on elevation of RAS activity. The data were therefore analyzed based on plasma renin activity, or PRA, elevation, with high PRA subjects defined as those with PRA levels greater than 5.82 ng/ml/hr, which is the upper limit of lab normal range. PRA is an enzyme in the RAS cascade and measures RAS activity. Eleven of the 24 treated subjects had high PRA. We believe that these high PRA subjects represent a sicker population more relevant to AHF, and we anticipate that most AHF patients will have high PRA. 

In this trial TRV027 produced a dose-related decrease in mean arterial pressure, or MAP, in subjects with elevated PRA. The reduction in MAP was sustained during the steady state infusion period and reversed during the washout period following the end of the infusion. 

We also observed evidence of pharmacologic effects on pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, or PCWP, in the subjects with elevated PRA. PCWP dropped in subjects with high PRA during the titration phase and this was sustained during the maintenance phase and reversed during the wash-out phase. The interpretation of the results in the titration and maintenance phases was complicated by a baseline drift in PCWP in the placebo group, however, the increase in PCWP when the TRV027 infusion was stopped was clear and statistically significant in high PRA compared to normal PRA subjects, with a p-value of less than 0.01. 

In this trial, there was no apparent change in cardiac index or heart rate observed in subjects with normal or high PRA following administration of TRV027. Cardiac index is a well-accepted measurement of how well the heart is functioning as a pump by directly correlating the volume of blood pumped by the heart with an individual's body surface area. This contrasts with the response of heart failure subjects to acute administration of the angiotensin receptor blocker, or ARB, losartan, which has been shown to decrease cardiac index in some studies. 

TRV027 was well tolerated in this medically fragile population. Despite the substantial reduction in MAP in TRV027-treated high-PRA subjects, there was no apparent increase in heart rate or in levels of cystatin-C or creatinine, which are biomarkers of renal function. This suggests that the blood pressure reduction was accompanied by preservation of kidney function. This result was consistent with our observations in preclinical studies. One subject in the lowest-dose cohort in this trial experienced hypotension necessitating dose reduction and then discontinuation of the TRV027 infusion. No other TRV027-related clinically significant adverse events were reported. 

Phase 1b renal safety trial in stable chronic heart failure subjects 

The primary objective of this trial was to explore the pharmacokinetics and renal safety of TRV027, co-administered with furosemide, in 17 subjects with a history of heart failure and concomitant renal dysfunction. TRV027 was administered using a standard dosing paradigm, with doses 

of 1.25 mg/hr, 6.25 mg/hr and 31.25 mg/hr, without weight correction. The plasma concentrations obtained were similar to those obtained when TRV027 was administered on a per-kg basis to subjects with normal kidney function, suggesting that a standard dosing approach with no adjustment for weight or renal impairment is appropriate, which would facilitate use in the emergency room where patients are not routinely weighed. In this study, TRV027 was well tolerated in these renally impaired subjects. There were no TRV027-related clinically significant or serious adverse events reported. In this trial, co-administration of TRV027 did not impair furosemide's effect on diuresis or urinary sodium excretion. 

Phase 1 clinical trial 

The Phase 1 clinical trial was a single center, crossover trial evaluating four-hour infusions of TRV027 in 20 healthy subjects at doses ranging from 0.01 to 20 &#181;g/kg/min. The primary objective of the trial was to evaluate the tolerability and pharmacokinetics of TRV027. TRV027 was well tolerated with no serious adverse events or clinically significant adverse events reported even at doses up to 20 times higher than the expected therapeutic dose. 

Preclinical studies 

In a paced dog animal model of heart failure, TRV027 decreased MAP and PCWP. TRV027 also increased renal blood flow and moderately increased cardiac output. In another paced dog model study, TRV027 was studied in combination with furosemide and showed additive effects on reducing PCWP, which would be consistent with beneficial effects on dyspnea in the clinic. In addition, combining the data in normal dogs, paced dogs and paced dogs treated with furosemide, we observed meaningful blood pressure decreases only in animals with elevated RAS. 

To examine the direct effects of TRV027 on cardiac contractility, we studied the hemodynamic effects of TRV027 compared to the unbiased ARB telmisartan in normal rats using a micromanometer conductance catheter. TRV027 treatment increased cardiac contractility independent of its effects on blood pressure, as measured by end systolic pressure volume relationship, or ESPVR, a common measure of cardiac output independent of blood pressure, and it also decreased MAP. This compared to telmisartan, which similarly decreased MAP but also decreased ESPVR. Telmisartan is an unbiased ARB that inhibits both the G protein and b -arrestin AT1R pathways. In addition, in in vitro studies, TRV027 stimulated cardiomyocyte contractility through a b -arrestin dependent mechanism and selectively activated a subset of downstream signaling pathways seen with the full agonist, angiotensin II. 

The mechanism by which TRV027 increased cardiac contractility in in vivo studies does not appear to involve calcium mobilization seen in currently marketed inotropes. Calcium mobilization is linked to pro-arrhythmic effects. In a study we conducted in rats, a b -arrestin biased AT1R ligand closely related to TRV027 increased contractility through a myofilament calcium sensitization mechanism, a novel mechanism of cardiac contractility that does not involve calcium mobilization. In in vivo studies, this related ligand prevented hypertrophy and prevented cardiac apoptosis, suggesting a potential cardioprotective effect. Furthermore, cardiac stress in mice induces AT1R, b -arrestin-dependent cardioprotective signaling, suggesting that AT1R b -arrestin biased ligands could be potentially cardioprotective. 

Option and License Agreements with Allergan 

On May 3, 2013, we entered into an option agreement and a license agreement with Allergan plc (formerly Actavis plc and Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited), under which we granted to Allergan an option to license TRV027. If Allergan exercises this option, the license agreement will become effective and Allergan will have an exclusive worldwide license to develop and commercialize TRV027 

and specified related compounds. Allergan will be responsible for subsequent development, regulatory approval and commercialization of TRV027 at its expense. At our request, Allergan will consider in good faith whether to grant us the right to co-promote the licensed products in the United States under terms to be agreed upon by the parties, but it has no obligation to provide co-promotion rights to us. 

Under the option agreement, we are conducting, at our expense, a Phase 2b clinical trial of TRV027 in AHF. The Phase 2b clinical trial is being conducted pursuant to a mutually agreed upon development plan and under the oversight of a joint development committee, which has an equal number of representatives from us and from Allergan, with operational authority during the option period retained by us, subject to Allergan's right to assume control in certain circumstances if we fail to conduct the development activities adequately. 

Allergan may exercise its option at any time during the Phase 2b clinical trial or during a specified time period after we deliver the data from the Phase 2b clinical trial to Allergan. During the option period, we are not permitted to negotiate for or enter into any agreement with a third party for the development and commercialization of TRV027 and its related compounds. Under specified circumstances linked to adverse changes in the market or related to the results from the Phase 2b trial of TRV027, Allergan has the right to renegotiate the terms of the license agreement. If Allergan exercises such right, we will be obligated to negotiate in good faith with Allergan for a period of time the terms of any new arrangement. If we and Allergan are unable to agree on the terms of any new arrangement, then the option agreement will terminate and for a specified period of time thereafter we may not offer a license to any third party on terms better than those last proposed either by us or by Allergan during the negotiations. If Allergan does not exercise the option during the specified period, its option will expire and the license agreement will not become effective. In that case, we would be free to enter into a collaboration arrangement with another party for the development and commercialization of TRV027 or to pursue development and commercialization on our own. 

We received no consideration upon the grant of the option to Allergan. In March 2015, Allergan and we signed a letter agreement under which Allergan paid us $10 million to fund the expansion of the Phase 2b trial from 500 patients to 620 patients. The March 2015 letter agreement does not otherwise amend the terms of the May 2013 option agreement. If Allergan exercises the option, we would receive a $65 million option exercise fee and could potentially receive up to $365 million in additional payments depending upon the achievement of future development and commercial milestones. We also could receive tiered royalties between 10% and 20% on net sales of licensed products worldwide, with the royalty rates on net sales of licensed products in the United States being somewhat higher than the royalty rates on net sales of licensed products outside the United States. The term of the royalty on sales of TRV027 for a given country would extend until the latest to occur of (i) ten years from first commercial sale of TRV027 in that country, (ii) the expiration of the last to expire patent claiming TRV027 that is sufficient to block the entrance of a generic version of the product, or (iii) the expiration of any period of exclusivity granted by applicable law or any regulatory authority in such country that confers exclusive marketing rights on the product. 

If the license agreement becomes effective, Allergan has the right to grant sublicenses under the license agreement to affiliates and third parties. Any sublicensing does not act to relieve Allergan of any of its obligations under the license agreement, including Allergan's obligation to make milestone payments to us with respect to TRV027 or pay royalties to us on sales of TRV027 by such sublicensee. Under the license, both Allergan and we have the right to terminate the agreement in the event of an uncured material breach or insolvency of the other party. In addition, Allergan is permitted to terminate the license agreement without cause at any time upon prior written notice or immediately for product safety reasons. Following a termination of the license agreement, all licenses granted to Allergan would terminate, and Allergan would grant to us an exclusive royalty bearing license under specified patents and know-how to develop and commercialize reverted licensed products. If not 

terminated, the license agreement would remain in effect until the expiration of the last royalty term for the last licensed product. 

Manufacturing 

TRV027 API has been made by a third party at a small scale up to 2 kg per batch. We are exploring potential process improvements, which we will implement as appropriate as development progresses. Currently, API and drug product are each manufactured at single sites, but additional sites are planned for qualification in connection with any Phase 3 clinical trials. 

Commercialization 

If Allergan exercises its option to license TRV027, Allergan will have the exclusive rights to commercialize TRV027 and will be responsible for all commercialization activities at Allergan's expense. At our request, Allergan will consider in good faith whether to grant us the right to co-promote TRV027 in the United States under terms to be agreed upon by the parties, but it has no obligation to provide co-promotion rights to us. If Allergan does not exercise its option to license TRV027 and we are successful in obtaining necessary regulatory approval, we may pursue commercialization on our own or seek to collaborate with a third party for commercialization, particularly outside the United States. 

Competition 

If TRV027 is approved for the indication of AHF, it will be used with standard loop diuretic therapy and may result in reduced need for vasodilators and/or inotropes. We also are aware of three product candidates in mid- to late-stage clinical development for AHF, specifically REASANZ&#153;, or serelaxin, which is being developed by Novartis and currently is in Phase 3 clinical trials in patients with AHF; omecamtiv mecarbil, which is being developed by Amgen in collaboration with Cytokinetics Incorporated, and currently is in Phase 2b clinical trials in patients with AHF and chronic heart failure; and ularitide, which is being developed by Cardiorentis and recently completed Phase 3 clinical trials for AHF. In addition, recently launched drugs for treating chronic heart failure such as ENTRESTO&#174; from Novartis for preserved ejection fraction heart failure, as well as other chronic heart failure products in development, have the potential to reduce the incidence of AHF. 

Intellectual Property 

Our TRV027 patent portfolio is wholly owned by us. The portfolio includes four issued U.S. patents (U.S. Patent Nos. 8,486,885; 8,796,204; 8,809,260; and 8,993,511) that claim, among other things, TRV027, compositions comprising TRV027 and methods of using TRV027, and issued patents in Europe, Australia, Japan, New Zealand and China. The issued U.S. patents covering the composition of matter and methods of using TRV027 are expected to expire no earlier than 2031 (U.S. Patent No. 8,486,885) and 2029 (U.S. Patent Nos. 8,796,204; 8,809,260, and 8,993,511), subject to any disclaimers or extensions available under the Hatch-Waxman Act. The issued European Patent is expected to provide coverage for TRV027 in the European Union until at least 2029, subject to any disclaimers or extensions. The TRV027 patent portfolio also includes two pending U.S. patent applications, which claim a genus of compounds that would encompass TRV027 and methods of using such compounds. If the two pending U.S. patent applications were to issue, they would be expected to expire no earlier than 2029, subject to any disclaimers or extensions. Outside of the United States, we have pending patent applications in Canada, Hong Kong and India that are directed to TRV027. The patents from these applications, if issued, are predicted to expire in 2029, subject to any disclaimers or extensions. 

Additionally, the TRV027 patent portfolio includes two U.S. non-provisional and PCT applications directed to, among other things, synthesis of TRV027, crystalline and amorphous forms of TRV027, and methods of preparing crystalline and amorphous forms of TRV027. Any patents resulting from these patent applications, if issued are expected to expire no earlier than 2035. The TRV027 patent portfolio is subject to Allergan's option for an exclusive license. 

Our Platform 

GPCRs are a large family of cell surface receptors that trigger two signaling pathways, G protein and b -arrestin, and are implicated in cellular function and disease processes. More than 30% of all currently marketed therapeutics target GPCRs. Currently available therapeutics that target GPCRs, or GPCR ligands, are typically not signal specific, and therefore either inhibit both the G protein and b -arrestin pathways (an antagonist ligand) or activate both pathways (an agonist ligand). This lack of signal specificity often results in a suboptimal therapeutic profile for these drugs because in many cases one of the pathways is associated with a beneficial therapeutic effect and the other is associated with limiting that benefit or with an undesirable side effect. We use our proprietary Advanced Biased Ligand Explorer, or ABLE, product platform to identify "biased" ligands, which are compounds that activate one of the two signaling pathways of the GPCR while inhibiting the other. This signaling specificity is the basis for our drug discovery and development approach, which is to identify selective GPCR biased ligands and develop them into differentiated clinical products. While some GPCRs trigger other signaling pathways in addition to G protein and b -arrestin, most GPCRs trigger those two pathways. 

Our ABLE product platform is a collection of proprietary biological information, in vitro assays, know-how and expertise that we use to identify unique GPCR-targeted biased ligands with attractive pharmaceutical properties. In vitro assays are laboratory tests performed outside of a living organism. Our in vitro assays use cells that have the receptor of interest on the cell surface, where G protein and b -arrestin signaling from that receptor can be measured to determine if a particular ligand is biased, and if so whether it is a G protein or b -arrestin biased ligand. Our assays can also measure different cellular responses resulting from signaling through b -arrestin and can thereby help us to associate pharmacological responses with molecular signaling. Most components of our ABLE product platform are maintained as trade secrets, but the output of the product platform is reflected in the product candidates that we have advanced into clinical testing and the research we have published in numerous peer-reviewed journals. We believe that our ABLE product platform provides us with an important competitive advantage in identifying further opportunities for efficient and high-impact biased ligand drug discovery, development and commercialization. 

We were founded in late 2007 to discover and develop product candidates based on biased ligands, a concept discovered by our scientific founder, Dr. Robert Lefkowitz, who was awarded the 2012 Nobel Prize in Chemistry in part for his elucidation of the multiple pathways that a GPCR engages. We believe that we are the first company to progress a GPCR biased ligand into clinical trials. The members of our executive management team have held senior positions at leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and possess substantial experience across the spectrum of drug discovery, development and commercialization. 

Intellectual Property 

We strive to protect the proprietary technologies that we believe are important to our business, including seeking and maintaining patent protection intended to cover the composition of matter of our product candidates, their methods of use, related technology and other inventions that are important to our business. We also rely on trade secrets and careful monitoring of our proprietary information to protect aspects of our business that are not amenable to, or that we do not consider appropriate for, patent protection. 

Our success will depend significantly on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary protection for commercially important technology, inventions and know-how related to our business, defend and enforce our patents, maintain our licenses to use intellectual property owned by third parties, preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets and operate without infringing valid and enforceable patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. We also rely on know-how, and continuing technological innovation to develop, strengthen and maintain our proprietary position in the field of modulating G protein coupled receptors with biased ligands. 

One or more third parties may hold intellectual property, including patent rights, that is important or necessary to the development of our products. It may be necessary for us to use the patented or proprietary technology of third parties to commercialize our products, in which case we would be required to obtain a license from these third parties on commercially reasonable terms, or our business could be harmed, possibly materially. If we were not able to obtain a license, or were not able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be harmed, possibly materially. 

We plan to continue to expand our intellectual property estate by filing patent applications directed to dosage forms, methods of treatment and additional biased modulators of G protein coupled receptors. We anticipate seeking patent protection in the United States and internationally for compositions of matter covering the compounds, the chemistries and processes for manufacturing these compounds and the use of these compounds in a variety of therapies. 

The patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies like us are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. In addition, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued, and the patent's scope can be modified after issuance. Consequently, we do not know whether any of our product candidates will be protectable or remain protected by enforceable patents. We cannot predict whether the patent applications we are currently pursuing will issue as patents in any particular jurisdiction or whether the claims of any issued patents will provide sufficient proprietary protection from competitors. Any patents that we hold may be challenged, circumvented or invalidated by third parties. 

Because many patent applications in the United States and certain other jurisdictions are maintained in secrecy for 18 months, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain patent protection for the inventions disclosed and/or claimed in our pending patent applications. Moreover, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or a foreign patent office to determine priority of invention or in post-grant challenge proceedings, such as oppositions, inter-partes review, post grant review or a derivation proceeding, that challenge our entitlement to an invention or the patentability of one or more claims in our patent applications or issued patents. Such proceedings could result in substantial cost, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. 

The term of individual patents depends upon the legal term of the patents in the countries in which they are obtained. In most countries in which we file, the patent term is 20 years from the earliest date of filing a PCT application or a non-provisional patent application, subject to any disclaimers or extensions. The term of a patent in the United States can be adjusted and extended due to the failure of the United States Patent and Trademark Office following certain statutory and regulation deadlines for issuing a patent. 

In the United States, the patent term of a patent that covers an FDA-approved drug also may be eligible for patent term extension, which permits patent term restoration as compensation for a portion of the patent term lost during clinical development and the FDA regulatory review process. The Hatch-Waxman Act permits a patent term extension of up to five years beyond the expiration of the patent. The length of the patent term extension is related to the length of time the drug is under clinical development and regulatory review. Patent term extension cannot extend the remaining term of 

a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the date of product approval and only one patent applicable to an approved drug may be extended. Similar provisions are available in Europe and other non-United States jurisdictions to extend the term of a patent that covers an approved drug. In the future, if and when our pharmaceutical products receive FDA approval, we expect to apply for patent term extensions on patents covering those products. Although, we intend to seek patent term extensions to any of our issued patents in any jurisdiction where these are available there is no guarantee that the applicable authorities, including the United States Patent and Trademark Office, will agree with our assessment of whether such extensions should be granted, and even if granted, the length of such extensions. 

We also rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. Although we take steps to protect our proprietary information and trade secrets, including through contractual means with our employees and consultants, third parties may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our technology. Thus, we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. It is our policy to require our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships with us. These agreements provide that all confidential information concerning our business or financial affairs developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual's relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. In the case of employees, the agreements provide that all inventions conceived by the individual, and which are related to our current or planned business or research and development or made during normal working hours, on our premises or using our equipment or proprietary information, are our exclusive property. 

Manufacturing 

We do not have any manufacturing facilities. We currently rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the manufacture of our product candidates for preclinical and clinical testing, as well as for commercial manufacture if our product candidates receive marketing approval. At this time, none of our contract manufacturing agreements limit where, or with whom we can contract for commercial manufacture or distribution. It is our intention that by the time of any regulatory approvals for commercialization, we will have negotiated long-term commitments with at least one primary and one secondary supplier for each manufacturing and distribution function. 

Commercialization 

We have not yet fully established sales, marketing or product distribution infrastructure. Subject to successfully completing product development and receiving marketing approvals, we expect to commence commercialization activities for our wholly owned products by building a sales organization in the United States, initially in the hospital market. We believe that such an organization will be able to address the community of physicians who are the key specialists in treating the patient populations for which our product candidates are being developed. We further believe that this sales organization could be adapted and expanded to provide support for TRV027 in the acute care setting if Allergan does not exercise its option to license TRV027. Outside the United States, we expect to enter into distribution and other commercial arrangements with third parties for any of our product candidates that obtain marketing approval. We also intend to license out commercial rights for products that require a substantial primary care presence. 

In parallel with building our commercial organization, we plan to develop educational initiatives with respect to approved products and relationships with thought leaders in relevant fields of medicine. 

Competition 

The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. While we believe that our technology, knowledge, experience and scientific resources provide us with competitive advantages, we face potential competition from many different sources, including major pharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions and governmental agencies and public and private research institutions. Any product candidates that we successfully develop and commercialize will compete with existing therapies and new therapies that may become available in the future. Products in development by other companies may provide efficacy, safety, convenience and other benefits that are not provided by currently marketed therapies. As a result, they may provide significant competition for any of our product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. 

Some of the companies against which we are competing or against which we may compete in the future have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. Smaller or early stage companies also may prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These competitors also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel and establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs. 

The key competitive factors affecting the success of all of our therapeutic product candidates, if approved, are likely to be their efficacy, safety, convenience, price, the level of generic competition and the availability of reimbursement from government and other third party payors. 

Our commercial opportunity could be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient or are less expensive than any products that we may develop. Our competitors also may obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours, which could result in our competitors establishing a strong market position before we are able to enter the market. In addition, our ability to compete may be affected in many cases by insurers or other third party payors seeking to encourage the use of generic products. Generic products that broadly address these indications are currently on the market for the indications that we are pursuing, and additional products are expected to become available on a generic basis over the coming years. If our product candidates achieve marketing approval, we expect that they will be priced at a significant premium over competitive generic products. 

Government Regulation and Product Approval 

Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and in other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, packaging, storage, recordkeeping, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, marketing, import and export of pharmaceutical products such as those we are developing. The processes for obtaining regulatory approvals in the United States and in foreign countries, along with subsequent compliance with applicable statutes and regulations, require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. 

FDA Regulation 

In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and its implementing regulations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the 

subsequent compliance with applicable federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations requires the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Failure to comply with the applicable United States requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval, may subject an applicant to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, such as the FDA's refusal to approve pending new drug applications, or NDAs, withdrawal of an approval, imposition of a clinical hold, issuance of warning or untitled letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement or civil or criminal penalties. 

The process required by the FDA before a drug may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: 

&#149; completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies in compliance with the FDA's good laboratory practice, or GLP, regulations; &#149; submission to the FDA of an IND which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin; &#149; approval by an independent institutional review board, or IRB, at each clinical site before each trial may be initiated; &#149; performance of human clinical trials, including adequate and well-controlled clinical trials, in accordance with good clinical practices, or GCP, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug product for each indication; &#149; submission to the FDA of an NDA; &#149; completion of an FDA advisory committee review, if applicable; &#149; satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product is produced to assess compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, and to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the drug's identity, strength, quality and purity, as well as satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of selected clinical sites to determine GCP compliance; &#149; FDA review and approval of the NDA; and &#149; in certain cases, DEA review and scheduling activities prior to launch. Preclinical Studies 

Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation of drug substance chemistry, toxicity and drug product formulation, as well as animal studies to assess potential safety and efficacy. An IND sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data and any available clinical data or literature, among other things, to the FDA as part of an IND. Manufacture of drug substance, drug product and the labeling and distribution of clinical supplies must all comply with cGMP standards. Some preclinical testing may continue even after the IND is submitted. An IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time the FDA raises concerns or questions related to one or more proposed clinical trials and places the trial on a clinical hold. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. As a result, submission of an IND may not result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to commence. 

Clinical Trials 

Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational new drug to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators in accordance with GCP requirements, which include the 

requirement that all research subjects provide their informed consent in writing for their participation in any clinical trial. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the trial, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. A protocol for each clinical trial and any subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. In addition, an IRB at each institution participating in the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial before it commences at that institution, and the IRB must continue to oversee the clinical trial while it is being conducted. Information about certain clinical trials must be submitted within specific timeframes to the National Institutes of Health, or NIH, for public dissemination on their ClinicalTrials.gov website. 

Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, which may overlap or be combined. In Phase 1, the drug is initially introduced into healthy human subjects or patients with the target disease or condition and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion and, if possible, to gain an initial indication of its effectiveness. In Phase 2, the drug typically is administered to a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage. In Phase 3, the drug is administered to an expanded patient population, generally at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites, in well-controlled clinical trials to generate enough data to statistically evaluate the efficacy and safety of the product for approval, to establish the overall risk-benefit profile of the product and to provide adequate information for the labeling of the product. 

Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and more frequently if serious adverse events occur. Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials may not be completed successfully within any specified period, or at all. Furthermore, the FDA or the sponsor may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB's requirements or if the drug has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. 

Marketing Approval 

Assuming successful completion of the required clinical testing, the results of the preclinical and clinical studies, together with detailed information relating to the product's chemistry, manufacture, controls and proposed labeling, among other things, are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. In most cases, the submission of an NDA is subject to a substantial application user fee. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, guidelines that are currently in effect, the FDA has agreed to certain performance goals regarding the timing of its review of an application. 

In addition, under the Pediatric Research Equity Act an NDA or supplement to an NDA must contain data that are adequate to assess the safety and effectiveness of the drug for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations, and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. The FDA may, on its own initiative or at the request of the applicant, grant deferrals for submission of some or all pediatric data until after approval of the product for use in adults, or full or partial waivers from the pediatric data requirements. 

The FDA also may require submission of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, to mitigate any identified or suspected serious risks and ensure safe use of the drug. The REMS plan could include medication guides, physician communication plans, assessment plans and elements to assure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries or other risk minimization 

tools. We expect that the &#181;-opioid agonist products will be subject to a REMS, since currently marketed opioid products are subject to this requirement. 

The FDA conducts a preliminary review of all NDAs within the first 60 days after submission, before accepting them for filing, to determine whether they are sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. The FDA may request additional information rather than accept an NDA for filing. In this event, the application must be resubmitted with the additional information. The resubmitted application is also subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth substantive review. The FDA reviews an NDA to determine, among other things, whether the drug is safe and effective and whether the facility in which it is manufactured, processed, packaged or held meets standards designed to assure the product's continued safety, quality and purity. 

The FDA typically refers a question regarding a novel drug to an external advisory committee. An advisory committee is a panel of independent experts, including clinicians and other scientific experts, that reviews, evaluates and provides a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. 

Before approving an NDA, the FDA typically will inspect the facility or facilities where the product is manufactured, referred to as a Pre-Approval Inspection, or PAI. The FDA will not approve an application unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. Additionally, before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical trial sites to assure compliance with GCP. 

The testing and approval process for an NDA requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and each may take several years to complete. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing are not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA may not grant approval of an NDA on a timely basis, or at all. 

After evaluating the NDA and all related information, including the advisory committee recommendation, if any, and inspection reports regarding the manufacturing facilities and clinical trial sites, the FDA may issue an approval letter, or, in some cases, a complete response letter. A complete response letter generally contains a statement of specific conditions that must be met in order to secure final approval of the NDA and may require additional clinical or preclinical testing in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. Even with submission of this additional information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval. If and when those conditions have been met to the FDA's satisfaction, the FDA will typically issue an approval letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. For some products, an additional step of DEA review and scheduling is required. 

Even if the FDA approves a product, it may limit the approved indications for use of the product, require that contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling, including a boxed warning, require that post-approval studies, including Phase 4 clinical trials, be conducted to further assess a drug's safety after approval, require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the product after commercialization or impose other conditions, including distribution restrictions or other risk management mechanisms under a REMS which can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the product. The FDA may prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of post-marketing studies or surveillance programs. After approval, some types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes and additional labeling claims, are subject to further testing requirements and FDA review and approval. 

Expedited Review and Approval 

The FDA has various programs, including Fast Track, Breakthrough Therapy designation, priority review, and accelerated approval, that are intended to expedite or simplify the process for reviewing drugs, and/or provide for the approval of a drug on the basis of a surrogate endpoint. Even if a drug qualifies for one or more of these programs, the FDA may later decide that the drug no longer meets the conditions for qualification or that the time period for FDA review or approval will be shortened. Generally, drugs that are eligible for these programs are those for serious or life-threatening conditions, those with the potential to address unmet medical needs and those that offer meaningful benefits over existing treatments. For example, Fast Track is a process designed to facilitate the development and expedite the review of drugs to treat serious or life-threatening diseases or conditions and fill unmet medical needs. In December 2015, FDA granted Fast Track designation to oliceridine for the management of moderate-to-severe acute pain. Priority review is designed to give drugs that offer major advances in treatment or provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists an initial review within six months as compared to a standard review time of ten months. 

Although Fast Track and priority review do not affect the standards for approval, the FDA will attempt to facilitate early and frequent meetings with a sponsor of a Fast Track designated drug and expedite review of the application for a drug designated for priority review. Accelerated approval, which is described in Subpart H of 21 Code of Federal Regulations, or 21 CFR Part 314, provides for an earlier approval for a new drug that is intended to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and that fills an unmet medical need based on a surrogate endpoint. A surrogate endpoint is a clinical measurement or other biomarker used as an indirect or substitute measurement to predict a clinically meaningful outcome. As a condition of approval, the FDA may require that a sponsor of a product candidate receiving accelerated approval perform post-marketing clinical trials. 

In the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA, which was signed into law in July 2012, Congress encouraged the FDA to utilize innovative and flexible approaches to the assessment of products under accelerated approval. The law required the FDA to issue related draft guidance within a year after the law's enactment and also promulgate confirming regulatory changes. In June 2013, the FDA published a draft Guidance for Industry entitled, "Expedited Programs for Serious Conditions&#151;Drugs and Biologics" which provides guidance on FDA programs that are intended to facilitate and expedite development and review of new drugs as well as threshold criteria generally applicable to concluding that a drug is a candidate for these expedited development and review programs. In addition to the Fast Track, accelerated approval and priority review programs discussed above, the FDA also provided guidance on a new program for Breakthrough Therapy designation. A Breakthrough Therapy designation is intended to expedite the development and FDA review of drugs for serious or life-threatening conditions or where preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement on a clinically significant endpoint(s) over available therapies. A request for Breakthrough Therapy designation should be submitted concurrently with, or as an amendment to an IND. In February 2016, oliceridine received a Breakthrough Therapy designation from the FDA for the management of moderate-to-severe acute pain in patients 18 years of age or older for whom a parenteral opioid is warranted. 

Post-Approval Requirements 

Drugs manufactured or distributed pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, requirements relating to recordkeeping, periodic reporting, product sampling and distribution, advertising and promotion and reporting of adverse experiences with the product. After approval, most changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications or other labeling claims are subject to prior FDA review and approval. There also are continuing, annual user fee requirements for any marketed products and the 

establishments at which such products are manufactured, as well as new application fees for supplemental applications with clinical data. 

The FDA may impose a number of post-approval requirements as a condition of approval of an NDA. For example, the FDA may require post-marketing testing, including Phase 4 clinical trials and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product's safety and effectiveness after commercialization. 

In addition, drug manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved drugs are required to register their establishments with the FDA and state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and these state agencies for compliance with cGMP requirements. Changes to the manufacturing process are strictly regulated and often require prior FDA approval before being implemented. FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon the sponsor and any third party manufacturers that the sponsor may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. 

Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory requirements and standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. 

Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in mandatory revisions to the approved labeling to add new safety information; imposition of post-market studies or clinical trials to assess new safety risks; or imposition of distribution or other restrictions under a REMS program. Other potential consequences include, among other things: 

&#149; restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, complete withdrawal of the product from the market or product recalls; &#149; fines, warning letters or holds on post-approval clinical trials; &#149; refusal of the FDA to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals; &#149; product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; or &#149; injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The FDA strictly regulates marketing, labeling, advertising and promotion of products that are placed on the market. Although physicians, in the practice of medicine, may prescribe approved drugs for unapproved indications, pharmaceutical companies generally are required to promote their drug products only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability. 

In addition, the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical products is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, or PDMA, which regulates the distribution of drugs and drug samples at the federal level, and sets minimum standards for the registration and regulation of drug distributors by the states. Both the PDMA and state laws limit the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical product samples and impose requirements to ensure accountability in distribution. 

DEA Regulation 

Both oliceridine and TRV734 will be regulated as a "controlled substance" as defined in the Controlled Substances Act of 1970, or CSA, which establishes registration, security, recordkeeping, reporting, storage, distribution and other requirements administered by the DEA. The DEA is concerned with the control of handlers of controlled substances, and with the equipment and raw materials used in their manufacture and packaging, in order to prevent loss and diversion into illicit channels of commerce. 

The DEA regulates controlled substances as Schedule I, II, III, IV or V substances. Schedule I substances by definition have no established medicinal use, and may not be marketed or sold in the United States. A pharmaceutical product may be listed as Schedule II, III, IV or V, with Schedule II substances considered to present the highest risk of abuse and Schedule V substances the lowest relative risk of abuse among such substances. Oliceridine and TRV734, if approved, are expected to be listed by the DEA as Schedule II controlled substances under the CSA. Consequently, their manufacture, shipment, storage, sale and use will be subject to a high degree of regulation. 

Annual registration is required for any facility that manufactures, distributes, dispenses, imports or exports any controlled substance. The registration is specific to the particular location, activity and controlled substance schedule. For example, separate registrations are needed for import and manufacturing, and each registration will specify which schedules of controlled substances are authorized. 

The DEA typically inspects a facility to review its security measures prior to issuing a registration. Security requirements vary by controlled substance schedule, with the most stringent requirements applying to Schedule I and Schedule II substances. Required security measures include background checks on employees and physical control of inventory through measures such as cages, surveillance cameras and inventory reconciliations. Records must be maintained for the handling of all controlled substances, and periodic reports made to the DEA, for example distribution reports for Schedule I and II controlled substances, Schedule III substances that are narcotics, and other designated substances. Reports must also be made for thefts or losses of any controlled substance, and to obtain authorization to destroy any controlled substance. In addition, special authorization and notification requirements apply to imports and exports. 

In addition, a DEA quota system controls and limits the availability and production of controlled substances in Schedule I or II. Distributions of any Schedule I or II controlled substance must also be accompanied by special order forms, with copies provided to the DEA. The DEA may adjust aggregate production quotas and individual production and procurement quotas from time to time during the year, although the DEA has substantial discretion in whether or not to make such adjustments. Our, or our contract manufacturers', quota of an active ingredient may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials. Any delay or refusal by the DEA in establishing our, or our contract manufacturers', quota for controlled substances could delay or stop our clinical trials or product launches. 

To meet its responsibilities, the DEA conducts periodic inspections of registered establishments that handle controlled substances. Individual states also regulate controlled substances, and we and our contract manufacturers will be subject to state regulation with respect to the distribution of these products. 

Federal and State Fraud and Abuse and Data Privacy and Security Laws and Regulations 

In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, federal and state fraud and abuse laws restrict business practices in the biopharmaceutical industry. These laws include anti-kickback and false claims laws and regulations as well as data privacy and security laws and regulations. 

The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease or order of any item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. The term "remuneration" has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value. The Anti-Kickback Statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting some common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly. Practices that involve remuneration that may be alleged to be intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Several courts have interpreted the statute's intent requirement to mean that if any one purpose of an arrangement involving remuneration is to induce referrals of federal healthcare covered business, the statute has been violated. 

The reach of the Anti-Kickback Statute was also broadened by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or collectively PPACA, which, among other things, amended the intent requirement of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. In addition, PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil False Claims Act or the civil monetary penalties statute, which imposes penalties against any person who is determined to have presented or caused to be presented a claim to a federal health program that the person knows or should know is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent. PPACA also created new federal requirements for reporting, by applicable manufacturers of covered drugs of payments and other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals. 

The federal False Claims Act prohibits any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government or knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim to the federal government. A claim includes "any request or demand" for money or property presented to the U.S. government. Several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. Other companies have been prosecuted for causing false claims to be submitted because of the companies' marketing of products for unapproved, and thus non-reimbursable, uses. 

The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private third party payors and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. Also, many states have similar fraud and abuse statutes or regulations that apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. 

In addition, we may be subject to data privacy and security regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, and their respective implementing regulations, including the final omnibus rule published on January 25, 2013, imposes specified requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. Among other things, HITECH makes HIPAA's privacy and security standards directly 

applicable to "business associates," defined as independent contractors or agents of covered entities that create, receive, maintain or transmit protected health information in connection with providing a service for or on behalf of a covered entity. HITECH also increased the civil and criminal penalties that may be imposed against covered entities, business associates and possibly other persons, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorney's fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. In addition, state laws govern the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. 

Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of available statutory and regulatory exemptions, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the federal or state laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including criminal and significant civil monetary penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations. To the extent that any of our products are sold in a foreign country, we may be subject to similar foreign laws and regulations, which may include, for instance, applicable post-marketing requirements, including safety surveillance, anti-fraud and abuse laws, and implementation of corporate compliance programs and reporting of payments or transfers of value to healthcare professionals. 

Coverage and Reimbursement 

The commercial success of our product candidates and our ability to commercialize any approved product candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which governmental payor programs at the federal and state levels, including Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers and other third party payors provide coverage for and establish adequate reimbursement levels for our product candidates. Government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally decide which drugs they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels for healthcare. In particular, in the United States, private health insurers and other third party payors often provide reimbursement for products and services based on the level at which the government provides reimbursement through the Medicare or Medicaid programs for such treatments. In the United States, the European Union and other potentially significant markets for our product candidates, government authorities and third party payors are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative products and therapies, which often has resulted in average selling prices lower than they would otherwise be. Further, the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the United States and on country and regional pricing and reimbursement controls in the European Union will put additional pressure on product pricing, reimbursement and usage, which may adversely affect our future product sales and results of operations. These pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical coverage and reimbursement policies and pricing in general. 

Third party payors are increasingly imposing additional requirements and restrictions on coverage and limiting reimbursement levels for medical products. For example, federal and state governments reimburse covered prescription drugs at varying rates generally below average wholesale price. These restrictions and limitations influence the purchase of healthcare services and products. Third- party payors may limit coverage to specific drug products on an approved list, or formulary, which might not include all of the FDA-approved drug products for a particular indication. Third party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, in addition to their safety and efficacy. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of our 

products, in addition to the costs required to obtain the FDA approvals. Our product candidates may not be considered medically necessary or cost-effective. A payor's decision to provide coverage for a drug product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Adequate third party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in drug development. Legislative proposals to reform healthcare or reduce costs under government insurance programs may result in lower reimbursement for our products and product candidates or exclusion of our products and product candidates from coverage. The cost containment measures that healthcare payors and providers are instituting and any healthcare reform could significantly reduce our revenue from the sale of any approved product candidates. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to obtain and maintain third party coverage or adequate reimbursement for our product candidates in whole or in part. 

Impact of Healthcare Reform on Coverage, Reimbursement and Pricing 

The United States and some foreign jurisdictions are considering enacting or have enacted a number of additional legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Among policy makers and payors in the United States and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality and expanding access. In the United States, the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, imposed new requirements for the distribution and pricing of prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries. Under Part D, Medicare beneficiaries may enroll in prescription drug plans offered by private entities that provide coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. Part D plans include both standalone prescription drug benefit plans and prescription drug coverage as a supplement to Medicare Advantage plans. Unlike Medicare Part A and B, Part D coverage is not standardized. Part D prescription drug plan sponsors are not required to pay for all covered Part D drugs, and each drug plan can develop its own drug formulary that identifies which drugs it will cover and at what tier or level. However, Part D prescription drug formularies must include drugs within each therapeutic category and class of covered Part D drugs, though not necessarily all the drugs in each category or class. Any formulary used by a Part D prescription drug plan must be developed and reviewed by a pharmacy and therapeutic committee. Government payment for some of the costs of prescription drugs may increase demand for any products for which we receive marketing approval. However, any negotiated prices for our future products covered by a Part D prescription drug plan will likely be lower than the prices we might otherwise obtain. Moreover, while the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own payment rates. Any reduction in payment that results from Medicare Part D may result in a similar reduction in payments from non-governmental payors. 

The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provides funding for the federal government to compare the effectiveness of different treatments for the same illness. A plan for the research will be developed by the Department of Health and Human Services, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality and the National Institutes of Health, and periodic reports on the status of the research and related expenditures will be made to Congress. Although the results of the comparative effectiveness studies are not intended to mandate coverage policies for public or private payors, it is not clear what effect, if any, the research will have on the sales of any product, if any such product or the condition that it is intended to treat is the subject of a study. It is also possible that comparative effectiveness research demonstrating benefits in a competitor's product could adversely affect the sales of our product candidates. If third party payors do not consider our product candidates to be cost-effective compared to other available therapies, they may not cover our product candidates, 

once approved, as a benefit under their plans or, if they do, the level of payment may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. 

PPACA became law in March 2010 and substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Among other cost containment measures, the PPACA establishes an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription drugs and biologic agents; a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program; and a new formula that increases the rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. In the future, there may continue to be additional proposals relating to the reform of the U.S. healthcare system, some of which could further limit the prices we are able to charge for our product candidates, once approved, or the amounts of reimbursement available for our product candidates once they are approved. 

In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since PPACA was enacted. In August 2011, the President signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, as amended, which, among other things, created the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to propose spending reductions to Congress. The Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction did not achieve its targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation's automatic reductions to several government programs. These reductions include aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on April 1, 2013, and will remain in effect through 2024 unless additional Congressional action is taken. In January 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. These and other healthcare reform initiatives may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding. 

Exclusivity and Approval of Competing Products 

Hatch-Waxman Patent Exclusivity 

In seeking approval for a drug through an NDA, applicants are required to list with the FDA each patent with claims that cover the applicant's product or a method of using the product. Upon approval of a drug, each of the patents listed in the application for the drug is then published in the FDA's Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, commonly known as the Orange Book. Drugs listed in the Orange Book can, in turn, be cited by potential competitors in support of approval of an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, or 505(b)(2) NDA. Generally, an ANDA provides for marketing of a drug product that has the same active ingredients in the same strengths, dosage form and route of administration as the listed drug and has been shown to be bioequivalent through in vitro or in vivo testing or otherwise to the listed drug. ANDA applicants are not required to conduct or submit results of preclinical or clinical tests to prove the safety or effectiveness of their drug product, other than the requirement for bioequivalence testing. Drugs approved in this way are commonly referred to as "generic equivalents" to the listed drug, and can often be substituted by pharmacists under prescriptions written for the original listed drug. 505(b)(2) NDAs generally are submitted for changes to a previously approved drug product, such as a new dosage form or indication. 

The ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA applicant is required to certify to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the approved product in the FDA's Orange Book, except for patents covering methods of use for which the ANDA applicant is not seeking approval. Specifically, the applicant must certify with respect to each patent that: 

&#149; the required patent information has not been filed; &#149; the listed patent has expired; 27 

&#149; the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or &#149; the listed patent is invalid, unenforceable or will not be infringed by the new product. Generally, the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA cannot be approved until all listed patents have expired, except when the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA applicant challenges a listed drug. A certification that the proposed product will not infringe the already approved product's listed patents or that such patents are invalid or unenforceable is called a Paragraph IV certification. If the applicant does not challenge the listed patents or indicate that it is not seeking approval of a patented method of use, the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA application will not be approved until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired. 

If the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA applicant has provided a Paragraph IV certification to the FDA, the applicant must also send notice of the Paragraph IV certification to the NDA and patent holders once the application has been accepted for filing by the FDA. The NDA and patent holders may then initiate a patent infringement lawsuit in response to the notice of the Paragraph IV certification. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days after the receipt of notice of the Paragraph IV certification automatically prevents the FDA from approving the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA until the earlier of 30 months, expiration of the patent, settlement of the lawsuit or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the ANDA applicant. 

Hatch-Waxman Non-Patent Exclusivity 

Market and data exclusivity provisions under the FDCA also can delay the submission or the approval of certain applications for competing products. The FDCA provides a five-year period of non-patent data exclusivity within the United States to the first applicant to gain approval of an NDA for a new chemical entity. A drug is a new chemical entity if the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active moiety, which is the molecule or ion responsible for the activity of the drug substance. During the exclusivity period, the FDA may not accept for review an ANDA or a 505(b)(2) NDA submitted by another company that contains the previously approved active moiety. However, an ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA may be submitted after four years if it contains a certification of patent invalidity or noninfringement. 

The FDCA also provides three years of marketing exclusivity for an NDA, 505(b)(2) NDA, or supplement to an existing NDA or 505(b)(2) NDA if new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability studies, that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant, are deemed by the FDA to be essential to the approval of the application or supplement. Three-year exclusivity may be awarded for changes to a previously approved drug product, such as new indications, dosages, strengths or dosage forms of an existing drug. This three-year exclusivity covers only the conditions of use associated with the new clinical investigations and, as a general matter, does not prohibit the FDA from approving ANDAs or 505(b)(2) NDAs for generic versions of the original, unmodified drug product. Five-year and three-year exclusivity will not delay the submission or approval of a full NDA; however, an applicant submitting a full NDA would be required to conduct or obtain a right of reference to all of the preclinical studies and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials necessary to demonstrate safety and effectiveness. 

Pediatric Exclusivity 

Pediatric exclusivity is another type of non-patent marketing exclusivity in the United States and, if granted, provides for the attachment of an additional six months of marketing protection to the term of any existing regulatory exclusivity, including the non-patent exclusivity periods described above. This six-month exclusivity may be granted if an NDA sponsor submits pediatric data that fairly respond to a written request from the FDA for such data. The data do not need to show the product to be effective 

in the pediatric population studied; rather, if the clinical trial is deemed to fairly respond to the FDA's request, the additional protection is granted. If reports of requested pediatric studies are submitted to and accepted by FDA within the statutory time limits, whatever statutory or regulatory periods of exclusivity or Orange Book listed patent protection cover the drug are extended by six months. This is not a patent term extension, but it effectively extends the regulatory period during which the FDA cannot approve an ANDA or 505(b)(2) application owing to regulatory exclusivity or listed patents. When any of our products is approved, we anticipate seeking pediatric exclusivity when it is appropriate. 

Foreign Regulation 

In order to market any product outside of the United States, we would need to comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical trials, marketing authorization, commercial sales and distribution of our products. For example, in the European Union, we must obtain authorization of a clinical trial application, or CTA, in each member state in which we intend to conduct a clinical trial. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we would need to obtain the necessary approvals by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from and be longer than that required to obtain FDA approval. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 53 employees, all of whom are located in the United States. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. 

Corporate Information 

We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in November 2007. Our principal executive offices are located at 1018 West 8th Avenue, Suite A, King of Prussia, Pennsylvania 19406. Our telephone number is (610) 354-8840. 

Available Information 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, are available, free of charge, on our website at www.trevenainc.com as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. You can also obtain copies free of charge by contacting our Investor Relations department at our office address listed below. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy, and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The information posted on or accessible through these websites are not incorporated into this filing. 

We are an "emerging growth company," as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (1) the last day of the fiscal year 

(a) following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering in February 2014, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.0 billion, or (c) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeded $700.0 million as of the prior June 30 th , and (2) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period. We refer to the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as the "JOBS Act," and references to "emerging growth company" have the meaning associated with it in the JOBS Act. 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

Name 

&#160; Age &#160; Position Maxine Gowen, Ph.D. &#160; &#160; 57 &#160; President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Carrie L. Bourdow &#160; &#160; 53 &#160; Senior Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer Roberto Cuca &#160; &#160; 48 &#160; Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Yacoub Habib, Ph.D. &#160; &#160; 48 &#160; Senior Vice President, Business Development and Corporate Planning Michael W. Lark, Ph.D. &#160; &#160; 58 &#160; Senior Vice President, Research and Chief Scientific Officer John M. Limongelli, Esq. &#160; &#160; 46 &#160; Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Administrative Officer David Soergel, M.D. &#160; &#160; 48 &#160; Senior Vice President, Clinical Development and Chief Medical Officer 

Maxine Gowen, Ph.D. 

Dr. Gowen has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer and as a member of our board of directors since our founding in November 2007. Prior to joining our company, Dr. Gowen was Senior Vice President for the Center of Excellence for External Drug Discovery at GlaxoSmithKline plc, or GSK, where she held a variety of leadership positions during her tenure of 15 years. Before GSK, Dr. Gowen was Senior Lecturer and Head, Bone Cell Biology Group, Department of Bone and Joint Medicine, of the University of Bath, U.K. Dr. Gowen has served as a director of Akebia Therapeutics, Inc. since July 2014 and Idera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. since January 2016. From 2008 until 2012, Dr. Gowen served as a director of Human Genome Sciences, Inc., a public biopharmaceutical company. Dr. Gowen also serves on the boards of BIO, the biotechnology industry association, and its affiliate, Pennsylvania Bio. She received her Ph.D. from the University of Sheffield, U.K., an M.B.A. with academic honors from The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and a B.Sc. with Honors in Biochemistry from the University of Bristol, U.K. 

Carrie L. Bourdow 

Ms. Bourdow has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer since May 2015. From May 2013 to May 2015, she was Vice President of Marketing at Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Prior to joining Cubist in 2013, Ms. Bourdow served for more than 20 years at Merck &#38; Co., Inc., where she held positions of increasing responsibility across several therapeutic areas including anti-infectives, acute heart failure, and pain. Ms. Bourdow earned her B.A. from Hendrix College and her M.B.A. from Southern Illinois University. 

Roberto Cuca 

Mr. Cuca joined our company as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in September 2013. Prior to joining us, he held various leadership positions in the finance organization of Endo Health Solutions Inc., a pharmaceutical company, from March 2010 to August 2013, including, most recently, Treasurer and Senior Vice President, Finance. Prior to that, he was Director, Corporate and Business Development, at moksha8 Pharmaceuticals, Inc., an emerging markets-focused pharmaceutical 

company, from March 2008 until February 2010. From 2005 until 2008, he worked at JPMorgan Chase &#38; Co. as an equity analyst covering U.S. pharmaceutical companies. Mr. Cuca received an M.B.A. from the Wharton School of The University of Pennsylvania, a J.D. from Cornell Law School and an A.B. from Princeton University, and he is a CFA charterholder. 

Yacoub Habib, Ph.D. 

Dr. Habib has served as our Senior Vice President, Business Development and Corporate Planning since July 2015. Previously, from 2009 to June 2015, he served as Vice President of Business Development at Ikaria, Inc. and led the business development strategy for the company until its acquisition. From 2007 to 2009, he served as Executive Director of New Business Development for Pfizer Inc. Before joining Pfizer, Dr. Habib was Executive Director of Global Business Development for Organon Pharmaceuticals, a division of Akzo Nobel, where he was responsible for the identification, evaluation, and negotiation of in-licensing, out-licensing and divestiture opportunities in neuroscience, fertility, and women health. He started his career at Bristol-Myers Squibb where he spent nine years in various research, corporate, and business development roles including as Director of Corporate and Business Development. Dr. Habib holds a Ph.D. in pharmaceutical sciences from the University of Maryland and an M.B.A. with a major in finance and marketing from New York University Stern School of Business. 

Michael W. Lark, Ph.D. 

Dr. Lark has served in a number of capacities with our company since February 2008, and since March 2011 has served as Senior Vice President, Research and Chief Scientific Officer. Prior to joining our company, he was Vice President of Biology at Centocor Inc., a division of Johnson &#38; Johnson, or Centocor, from 2004 until 2008 and the Senior Director of Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases at Centocor from 2002 to 2004. Prior to that, Dr. Lark was Director of Musculoskeletal Diseases at GSK, from 1999 until 2002. Dr. Lark received his Ph.D. in Molecular Biology and Microbiology from the Case Western Reserve University Medical School and his B.S. in Microbiology from the Pennsylvania State University. 

John M. Limongelli, Esq. 

Mr. Limongelli joined our company as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in May 2014 and was appointed Chief Administrative Officer in March 2016. Prior to this, he was Vice President, Associate Chief Counsel and Corporate Secretary at Cigna Corporation from September 2013 until May 2014. From October 2012 to September 2013, he was a partner at the law firm Royer Cooper Cohen Braunfeld LLC. He served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary at Adolor Corporation from September 2008 until Adolor's acquisition by Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in December 2011. Prior to Adolor, Mr. Limongelli held roles of increasing responsibility with Cephalon, Inc., most recently serving as Vice President and Associate General Counsel. Mr. Limongelli began his legal career in private practice with Morgan, Lewis &#38; Bockius, LLP, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Prior to his legal career, Mr. Limongelli was a certified public accountant with KPMG LLP. Mr. Limongelli obtained both his J.D. and M.B.A. from Temple University. 

David Soergel, M.D. 

Dr. Soergel has served in multiple positions since joining our company in November 2009 and currently serves as our Senior Vice President, Clinical Development and Chief Medical Officer. Prior to joining our company, he served as Senior Director, Clinical Development for Concert Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biotechnology company, from July 2008 to November 2009. Prior to Concert, Dr. Soergel served as Director, Discovery Medicine, in the Cardiovascular Urogenital Center of Excellence in Drug Discovery at GSK, from 2005 until 2008. Dr. Soergel received an M.D. from Cornell University Medical College and a B.A. from The Johns Hopkins University. Dr. Soergel completed his clinical training in pediatric cardiology at Johns Hopkins Hospital and underwent additional training in heart failure and transplant at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. 

