 Item 1. 

Business. 

(a) General Development of Business 

Tupperware Brands Corporation (&#8220;Registrant&#8221;, &#8220;Tupperware Brands&#8221; or the &#8220;Company&#8221;) is a global direct-to-consumer marketer of premium, innovative products across multiple brands and categories through an independent sales force of 3.1 million . Product brands and categories include design-centric preparation, storage and serving solutions for the kitchen and home through the Tupperware &#174; &#32;brand and beauty and personal care products through the Avroy Shlain &#174; , BeautiControl &#174; , Fuller &#174; , NaturCare &#174; , Nutrimetics &#174; &#32;and Nuvo &#174; &#32;brands. The Registrant is a Delaware corporation that was organized on February 8, 1996 in connection with the corporate reorganization of Premark International, Inc. (&#8220;Premark&#8221;). 

(b) New York Stock Exchange-Required Disclosures 

General. The address of the Registrant's principal office is 14901 South Orange Blossom Trail, Orlando, Florida 32837. The names of the Registrant's directors are Catherine A. Bertini, Susan M. Cameron, Kriss Cloninger, III, Meg Crofton, E.V. Goings, Joe R. Lee, Angel R. Martinez, Antonio Monteiro de Castro, Robert J. Murray, David R. Parker, Richard T. Riley, Joyce M. Roch&#233; and M. Anne Szostak. Members of the Audit, Finance and Corporate Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors are Mr. Monteiro de Castro (Chair), Mses. Bertini and Szostak and Messrs. Lee, Murray and Riley. The members of the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors are Mr. Parker (Chair), Mses. Cameron, Crofton and Roch&#233; and Messrs. Cloninger and Martinez. The members of the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors are Mr. Murray (Chair), Ms. Roch&#233; and Messrs. Cloninger, Monteiro de Castro and Parker. The members of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors are Mr. Goings (Chair) and Messrs. Cloninger, Monteiro de Castro, Murray and Parker. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is Mr. Goings and the Presiding Director is Mr. Murray. The Registrant's executive officers and the number of its employees are set forth below in Part I of this Report. The name and address of the Registrant's transfer agent and registrar is Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., c/o Wells Fargo Shareowner Services, 1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101, MAC N9173-010, Mendota Heights, MN 55120. The number of the Registrant's shareholders is set forth below in Part II, Item 5 of this Report. The Registrant is satisfying its annual distribution requirement to shareholders under the New York Stock Exchange (&#8220;NYSE&#8221;) rules by the distribution of its Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) in lieu of a separate annual report. 

Corporate Governance. Investors can obtain access to periodic reports and corporate governance documents, including board committee charters, corporate governance principles and codes of conduct and ethics for financial executives, and information regarding the Registrant's transfer agent and registrar through the Registrant's website free of charge (as soon as reasonably practicable after reports are filed with the SEC, in the case of periodic reports) by going to www.tupperwarebrands.com and searching under Investor Relations / SEC Filings and Governance Documents. The Chief Executive Officer of the Registrant has certified to the NYSE that he is not aware of any violation by the Registrant of NYSE corporate governance listing standards. 

BUSINESS OF TUPPERWARE BRANDS CORPORATION 

The Registrant is a worldwide direct-to-consumer company engaged in the manufacture and sale of Tupperware &#174; &#32;products and cosmetics and personal care products under a variety of trade names, including Avroy Shlain &#174; , BeautiControl &#174; , Fuller &#174; , NaturCare &#174; , Nutrimetics &#174; &#32;and Nuvo &#174; . Each business manufactures and/or markets a broad line of high quality products. 

I. PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS 

Tupperware. The core of the Tupperware product line consists of design-centric preparation, storage, and serving solutions for the kitchen and home. Tupperware also has established lines of cookware, knives, microwave products, microfiber textiles, water-filtration related items and an array of products for on-the-go consumers. The Company has continued to refresh its traditional kitchen and home products, such as the Salad Spinner and Measuring Cups, as well as the EZ Mix n Stor and EZ Shaker*, with updated designs and incremental technological enhancements while evolving towards more lifestyle-oriented products. These new lifestyle solutions are based on consumer insights from the Company's market and product leaders around the globe. In 2015 , key launches to contemporize the Tupperware product offering included the efficient Tupperware Click Series* Peeler System and the introduction of the Warmie-Tup* Serving Range, which insulates foods to maintain serving temperatures for longer. Other key launches and line extensions introduced included the fun and versatile Silicone Baking Forms Football Sheet with Rim, the Microwave Rice Maker Large, the Eco Prep Fruit Juicer and the Click to Go Containers. The successful Fusion Master* System was expanded to include the new Chef Press* Dicer for added functionality and the Freezer Mates* range was also extended to include new size options. A new knife range, Chef Series Pure Knives, was introduced last year featuring a Bread Knife, a Chef Knife, a Paring Knife and a Utility Knife. A new generation of Eco Bottles, now printable, was also introduced in 2015 , while the Kids' Eco Bottle range was further expanded. 

The Company continues to introduce new materials, designs, colors and decoration in its product lines, to vary its offerings including by season and to extend existing products into new markets. The development of new products varies across markets in order to address differences in cultures, lifestyles, tastes and needs, although most products are offered in a large number of markets. 

Research and development and the resultant new products will continue to be an important part of the Company's strategy going forward. 

Beauty. In Beauty, the Company manufactures and distributes skin and hair care products, cosmetics, bath and body care, toiletries, fragrances, jewelry and nutritional products. There were a number of key product launches by brand in 2015 : 

Beauticontrol saw several key product launches that expanded the Regeneration* Tight, Firm &#38; Fill* range. These included Regeneration* Tight, Firm &#38; Fill*, Dramatic New Anti-Aging Cr&#232;me, Regeneration* Tight, Firm &#38; Fill* PM Miracle Complex with Retinol, Regeneration* Tight, Firm &#38; Fill* PM Intensive Moisturizing Lip Treatment and Regeneration* Tight, Firm &#38; Fill* PM Intensive Moisturizing Eye Elixir. The Beauticontrol Lovely Eyes Palette was added in the color cosmetics category. 

Fuller Cosmetics expanded its fragrance lines by introducing Azul Life* fragrance for Father&#8217;s Day, Exclusive by Armand Dupree* for him and Armand Dupree Glam* for her fragrances for the winter holiday season and a new Hello Kitty scent, under license, for the summer. The Hola Bebe fragrance for her was also introduced in 2015, under license, featuring popular Mexican pop star, Espinoza Paz. 

Tupperware Brands Brazil introduced the Nutrimetics* brand by launching a new range of cosmetics, fragrances and skin care products. Major launches included Nutrimetics Nutri-Rich Oil with Apricot Kernel Oil and 5 fragrances: Miami, Paris, NYC, London and Rouge, all under the Nutrimetics* brand. 

Tupperware Brands Philippines redesigned its top 2 women&#8217;s fragrances: Ivana* and A Little Romance*. The fragrances were reintroduced to the sales force via product roadshows. 

Nutrimetics Australia&#8217;s Ultra Care+ Platinum Skin Care range continues to rank in their top 10 products. The launch of the Ultra Care+ Platinum Skin Care Hand Cr&#232;me helped to support the sale of the other key products within this range. A similar strategy was used in the color category with the introduction of the Nutrimetics Professional* Colour Range, which featured 5 products in 2015 , with the most popular being the Nutrimetics Professional* Nude Color Palette. 

Avroy Shlain relaunched its daily skincare ranges with 2 variants, the Nucelle* range for dry skin and Tahlita* range, which features more advanced ingredients, for combination skin. In the technologically advanced skincare range, Cell Revitalization Therapy (CRT*), they introduced CRT* Youth Gel Eye Serum, CRT* Hydration Serum and CRT* Anti-wrinkle Serum. Their fragrance category&#8217;s key launches included Adrenalin* for men and Inspired Dreams* for ladies fragrances, and the introduction of the Destination Collection New York fragrance. Gel Nails and CC Creams were introduced to the Coppelia Colour* range. 

(Words followed by * are registered or unregistered trademarks of the Registrant.) 

II. MARKETS 

The Company operates its business under five reporting segments in three broad geographic regions: Europe (Europe, Africa and the Middle East), Asia Pacific and the Americas. Market penetration varies throughout the world. Several areas that have low penetration, such as Latin America, Asia and Eastern and Central Europe, provide the Company significant growth potential. The Company's strategy continues to include greater penetration in markets throughout the world. 

Tupperware Brands' products are sold around the world under seven brands: Tupperware, Avroy Shlain, BeautiControl, Fuller, NaturCare, Nutrimetics and Nuvo. The Company defines its established market economy units as those in Western Europe (including Scandinavia), Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand and the United States. All other units are classified as operating in emerging market economies. Businesses operating in emerging markets accounted for 66 percent &#32;of 2015 &#32;sales, while businesses operating in established markets accounted for the other 34 percent . For the past five fiscal years, 90 &#32;to 92 percent &#32;of total revenues from the sale of Tupperware Brands' products have been in international markets. 

See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding segments and geographic areas. 

III. DISTRIBUTION OF PRODUCTS 

The Company's products are distributed worldwide primarily through the &#8220;direct-to-consumer&#8221; method, under which products are sold by an independent sales force to consumers outside traditional retail store locations. The system facilitates the timely distribution of products to consumers, without having to work through retail intermediaries, and establishes uniform practices regarding the use of Tupperware Brands' trademarks and administrative arrangements, such as order entry, delivery and payment, along with the addition and training of new sales force members. 

Products are primarily sold directly to distributors, directors, managers and dealers (&#8220;sales force&#8221;) throughout the world. Where distributorships are granted, they have the right to market the Company's products using parties and other non-retail methods and to utilize Tupperware Brands' trademarks. The vast majority of the sales force members are independent contractors and not employees of Tupperware. In certain limited circumstances, the Company has acquired ownership of distributorships for a period of time, until an independent distributor can be installed, in order to maintain market presence. 

In addition to the introduction of new products and development of new geographic markets, a key element of the Company's strategy is expanding its business by increasing the size of its sales force. Under the system, distributors, directors, team leaders and managers, and dealers add, train, and motivate a large number of dealers. Managers are developed from among the dealer group and promoted to assist in adding, training and motivating dealers, while continuing to sell products. 

As of December 26, 2015 , the Company's distribution system had approximately 2,000 distributors, 101,700 managers (including directors and team leaders) and 3.1 million dealers worldwide. 

Tupperware has traditionally relied upon the group presentation method of sales, which is designed to enable purchasers to appreciate, through demonstration, the features and benefits of the Company's products. Parties are held in homes, offices, social clubs and other locations. Products are also promoted through brochures mailed or given to people invited to attend parties and various other types of demonstrations. Some business units utilize a campaign merchandising system, whereby sales force members sell through brochures generated every two or three weeks, to their friends, neighbors and relatives. Sales of products are supported through programs of sales promotions, sales and training aids and motivational conferences for the sales force. In addition, to support its sales force, the Company utilizes catalogs and television and magazine advertising, which help to increase its sales levels with hard-to-reach customers and generate leads for sales and new dealers. A significant portion of the Company's business is operated through distributors, many of whom stock inventory and fulfill orders of the sales force that are generally placed after orders have been received from end consumers. In other cases, the Company sells directly to the sales force, also generally after they have received a consumer order. 

In 2015 , the Company continued to sell directly, and/or through its sales force, to end consumers via the Internet. It also entered into a limited number of business-to-business transactions, in which it sells products to a partner company for sale to consumers through the partner's distribution channel, with a link back to the core business. Internet and business-to-business transactions do not constitute a significant portion of the Company's sales. 

IV. COMPETITION 

There are many competitors to Tupperware Brands' businesses both domestically and internationally. The principal bases of competition generally are marketing, price, quality and innovation of products, as well as competition with other &#8220;direct-to-consumer&#8221; companies for sales personnel and demonstration dates. Due to the nature of the direct-to-consumer industry, it is critical that the Company provides a compelling earnings opportunity for the sales force, along with developing new and innovative products. The Company maintains its competitive position, in part, through the use of strong incentives and promotional programs. 

Through its Tupperware &#174; &#32;brand, the Company competes in the food storage, serving and preparation, containers, toys and gifts categories. Through its beauty and personal care brands, the Company also competes in the skin care, cosmetics, toiletries, fragrances and nutritionals categories. The Company works to differentiate itself from its competitors through its brand names, product innovation, quality, value-added services, celebrity endorsements, technological sophistication, new product introductions and its channel of distribution, including the training, motivation and compensation arrangements for its independent sales forces. 

V. EMPLOYEES 

The Registrant employs approximately 13,000 people, of whom approximately 1,000 are based in the United States. 

VI. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 

The Registrant incurred $18.1 million , $19.3 million &#32;and $20.0 million &#32;for fiscal years 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively, on research and development activities for new products and production processes. 

VII. RAW MATERIALS 

Many of the products manufactured by and for the Company require plastic resins that meet its specifications. These resins are purchased through various arrangements with a number of large chemical companies located throughout the Company's markets. As a result, the Company has not experienced difficulties in obtaining adequate supplies and generally has been successful in obtaining favorable resin prices on a relative basis. Research and development relating to resins used in Tupperware &#174; &#32;products is performed by both the Company and its suppliers. 

Materials used in the Company's skin care, cosmetic and bath and body care products consist primarily of readily available ingredients, containers and packaging materials. Such raw materials and components used in goods manufactured and assembled by the Company and through outsource arrangements are available from a number of sources. To date, the Company has been able to secure an adequate supply of raw materials for its products, and it endeavors to maintain relationships with backup suppliers in an effort to ensure that no interruptions occur in its operations. 

VIII. TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS 

Tupperware Brands considers its trademarks and patents to be of material importance to its business; however, except for the Tupperware&#174; trademark, Tupperware Brands is not dependent upon any single patent or trademark, or group of patents or trademarks. The Tupperware&#174; trademark, as well as its other trademarks, are registered on a country-by-country basis. The current duration for such registration ranges from five years to ten years; however, each such registration may be renewed an unlimited number of times. The patents used in Tupperware Brands' business are registered and maintained on a worldwide basis, with a variety of durations. Tupperware Brands has followed the practice of applying for design and utility patents with respect to most of its significant patentable developments. 

IX. ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS 

Compliance with federal, state and local environmental protection laws has not had in the past, and is not expected to have in the future, a material effect upon the Registrant's capital expenditures, liquidity, earnings or competitive position. 

X. OTHER 

Sales do not vary significantly on a quarterly basis; however, third quarter sales are generally lower than the other quarters in any year due to vacations by dealers and their customers, as well as reduced promotional activities during this quarter. Sales generally increase in the fourth quarter, as it includes traditional gift-giving occasions in many markets and as children return to school and households refocus on activities that include party plan sales events and the use of the Company's housewares products, along with increased promotional activities supporting these opportunities. 

Generally, there are no working capital practices or backlog conditions which are material to an understanding of the Registrant's business, although the Company generally seeks to minimize its net working capital position at the end of each fiscal year and normally generates a significant portion of its annual cash flow from operating activities in its fourth quarter. The Registrant's business is not dependent on a small number of customers, nor is any of its business subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the United States government. 

XI. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

Following is a list of the names and ages of all the Executive Officers of the Registrant, indicating all positions and offices held by each such person with the Registrant, and each such person's principal occupations or employment during the past five years. Each such person has been elected to serve until the next annual election of officers of the Registrant (expected to occur on May 24, 2016 ). 

Name and Age 

&#160; 

Positions and Offices Held and Principal Occupations of Employment- During Past Five Years 

Allen Dando, age 62 

&#160; 

Group President, Tupperware Europe, Africa &#38; Middle East since September 2015, after serving as its Area Vice President since January 2015 and prior thereto in various leadership positions in Europe and Africa. 

Lillian D. Garcia, age 59 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer, after serving as Executive Vice President and Area Vice President, Argentina, Uruguay, Venezuela and Ecuador from January 2011 to December 2012, and as Executive Vice President and President, Fuller Argentina since January 2010. 

E.V. Goings, age 70 

&#160; 

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since October 1997. 

Asha Gupta, age 44 

&#160; 

Group President, Asia Pacific since January 1, 2014 after serving as Area Vice President, India, Philippines and Nutrimetics Australia since January 2012. Prior thereto she served as Managing Director, Tupperware India. 

Josef Hajek, age 57 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President, Tax and Governmental Affairs since February 2006. 

Simon C. Hemus, age 66 

&#160; 

President and Chief Operating Officer since January 2007. 

Georg H. Jaggy, age 58 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President and Chief Global Marketing Officer since January 2015, after serving as President, Tupperware Germany and Area Vice President, Northern Europe since March 2013, and President &#38; Area Vice President, Tupperware Germany since November 2008. 

Michael S. Poteshman, age 52 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since August 2004. 

Nicholas K. Poucher, age 54 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President and Controller since November 2014, after serving as Vice President and Controller since August 2007. 

Thomas M. Roehlk, age 65 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer &#38; Secretary since August 2005. 

Patricia A. Stitzel, age 50 

&#160; 

Group President, Americas since January 2014 after serving as Senior Area Vice President, Central Europe since 2012 and prior thereto in various leadership positions in Europe. 

William J. Wright, age 53 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, Supply Chain Worldwide since October 2015, after serving as Senior Vice President, Global Supply Chain since October 2014, Senior Vice President, Global Product Development, Tupperware since March 2013, and Senior Vice President, Global Product Marketing since October 2010. 

