 Item 1. 

Business 

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

Item 2. 

Properties 

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

Item 4. 

Mine Safety Disclosures 

PART II 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Item 5. 

Market For Registrant&#8217;s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data 

Item 7. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

Item 9B. 

Other Information 

PART III 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance of the Registrant 

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 

Item 14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

PART IV 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Item 15. 

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

2 

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

Certain information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Retrophin, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the &#8220;Company&#8221;) include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The statements herein which are not historical reflect our current expectations and projections about the Company&#8217;s future results, performance, liquidity, financial condition, prospects and opportunities and are based upon information currently available to the Company and management and is subject to its interpretation of what is believed to be significant factors affecting the businesses, including many assumptions regarding future events. Such forward-looking statements include statements regarding, among other things: 

&#8226; 

our ability to produce, sustain and expand sales of our products; 

&#8226; 

our ability to develop, acquire and/or introduce new products; 

&#8226; 

our projected future sales, profitability and other financial metrics; 

&#8226; 

our future financing plans; 

&#8226; 

our anticipated needs for working capital; 

&#8226; 

the anticipated trends in our industry; 

&#8226; 

acquisitions of other companies or assets that we might undertake in the future; 

&#8226; 

our operations in the United States and abroad, and the domestic and foreign regulatory, economic and political conditions; and 

&#8226; 

competition existing today or that will likely arise in the future. 

Forward-looking statements, which involve assumptions and describe our future plans, strategies and expectations, are generally identifiable by use of the words &#8220;may,&#8221; &#8220;should,&#8221; &#8220;expect,&#8221; &#8220;anticipate,&#8221; &#8220;estimate,&#8221; &#8220;believe,&#8221; &#8220;intend,&#8221; &#8220;seek,&#8221; or &#8220;project&#8221; or the negative of these words or other variations on these words or comparable terminology. Actual results, performance, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, prospects and opportunities could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements as a result of various risks, uncertainties and other factors, including the ability to raise sufficient capital to continue the Company&#8217;s operations. Actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, without limitation, the risks outlined under &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; and matters described in this Annual Report generally. In light of these risks and uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report will in fact occur. Potential investors should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Except as expressly required by the federal securities laws, there is no undertaking to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or any other reason. 

The specific discussions in this Annual Report about the Company include financial projections and future estimates and expectations about the Company&#8217;s business. The projections, estimates and expectations are presented in this Annual Report only as a guide about future possibilities and do not represent actual amounts or assured events. All the projections and estimates are based exclusively on the Company management&#8217;s own assessment of the business, the industry in which it works and the economy at large and other operational factors, including capital resources and liquidity, financial condition, fulfillment of contracts and opportunities. The actual results may differ significantly from the projections. 

Potential investors should not make an investment decision based solely on the Company&#8217;s projections, estimates or expectations. 

PART I 

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless the context requires otherwise, the terms &#8220;we&#8221;, &#8220;our&#8221;, &#8220;us&#8221;, &#8220;Retrophin&#8221; and the &#8220;Company&#8221; refer to Retrophin, Inc., a Delaware corporation, as well as our direct and indirect subsidiaries. 

&#32;&#32;&#32;ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Those statements in the following discussion that are not historical in nature should be considered to be forward looking statements that are inherently uncertain. Actual results and the timing of the events may differ materially from those contained in these forward looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in the &#8220;Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements&#8221; and &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report. 

Overview 

We are a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company with approximately 130 employees headquartered in San Diego, California, focused on the development, acquisition and commercialization of therapies for the treatment of serious, catastrophic or rare diseases. We regularly evaluate and, where appropriate, act on opportunities to expand our product pipeline through licenses and acquisitions of products in areas that will serve patients with serious, catastrophic or rare diseases and that we believe offer attractive growth characteristics. 

We currently sell the following three products: 

&#8226; 

Chenodal &#174; &#160;(chenodeoxycholic acid) &#32;is approved in the United States for the treatment of patients suffering from gallstones in whom surgery poses an unacceptable health risk due to disease or advanced age. Chenodal &#174; has also been the standard of care for cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (&#8220;CTX&#8221;) patients for more than three decades and the Company is currently pursuing adding this indication to the label. 

&#8226; 

Cholbam &#174; &#160;(cholic acid) &#32;is approved in the United States for the treatment of bile acid synthesis disorders due to single enzyme defects and is further indicated for adjunctive treatment of patients with peroxisomal disorders. 

&#8226; 

Thiola &#174; &#32;(tiopronin) &#32;is approved in the United States for the prevention of cystine (kidney) stone formation in patients with severe homozygous cystinuria. 

Our Strategy 

Our goal is to become a leading biopharmaceutical company specializing in the development and commercialization of therapies that deliver significant value for patients with serious, catastrophic or rare diseases. In order to achieve our goal, we intend to: 

&#8226; 

Expand our product pipeline. &#32;We intend to expand our product pipeline by pursuing additional acquisitions of pharmaceutical products that have the potential to have a profound impact on patients&#8217; lives. We believe that there are multiple drugs for treating life-threatening diseases that may be neglected by other pharmaceutical companies. We believe that we can create value by acquiring certain of these products. 

&#8226; 

Focus on developing products to treat rare diseases characterized by severe unmet medical needs. &#32;We focus on potentially transformational orphan drug candidates in order to leverage our development and commercialization capabilities in rare disease. We believe that drug development for orphan drug markets is particularly attractive because relatively small clinical trials can demonstrate the large clinical effects expected with transformational therapies. Furthermore, the regulatory and commercial models for orphan drugs are well established. Finally, we believe that our research, development, and commercialization capabilities are well suited to the orphan drug market and represent distinct competitive advantages. 

&#8226; 

Develop a sustainable pipeline by employing disciplined decision criteria in the evaluation of potential in-licensing candidates. &#32;We seek to build a sustainable product pipeline by employing multiple therapeutic approaches and by developing or acquiring orphan drug candidates. We will seek to augment our internally developed pipeline projects by selectively and strategically acquiring pipeline assets that will add value to the portfolio. We intend to mitigate risk by employing rigorous decision criteria, favoring drug candidates that have undergone at least some clinical study. Our decision to acquire rights to a drug candidate also depends on the scientific merits of the available clinical data; the identifiable orphan patient population; the economic terms of any proposed acquisition of rights; the amount of capital required to develop the asset; and the economic potential of the drug candidate, should it be commercialized. We believe this strategy minimizes our clinical development risk and allows us to accelerate the development and potential commercialization of current and future drug candidates. 

&#8226; 

Evaluate the commercialization strategies on a product-by-product basis to maximize the value of each. &#32;As we move our drug candidates through development toward regulatory approval, we will evaluate several options for each drug candidate&#8217;s commercialization strategy. These options include building our own internal sales force; entering into joint marketing partnerships with other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, whereby we jointly sell and market the product; and out-licensing our products, whereby other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies sell and market our product and pay us a royalty on sales. Our decision will be made separately for each product and will be based on a number of factors including capital necessary to execute on each option, size of the market and terms of potential offers from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. 

Our Product Candidates and Products on the Market 

&#160; The following table summarizes the status of our products on the market, product candidates and preclinical programs, each of which are described in further detail below. 

Products on the Market: 

Chenodal (chenodiol tablets) 

Chenodal is a synthetic oral form of chenodeoxycholic acid, a naturally occurring primary bile acid synthesized from cholesterol in the liver, indicated for the treatment of radiolucent stones in well-opacifying gallbladders in whom selective surgery would be undertaken except for the presence of increased surgical risk due to systemic disease or age. 

Chenodal administration is known to reduce biliary cholesterol and the dissolution of radiolucent gallstones through suppression of hepatic synthesis of cholesterol, cholic acid and deoxycholic acid in the bile pool. Chenodal was first approved by the Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") &#32;in 1983 for the management of gallstones but its marketing was later discontinued due to lack of commercial success. In 2009 an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, for Chenodal submitted by Nexgen Pharma was approved by the FDA for the treatment of gallstones; Chenodal &#174; &#32;is private label manufactured for Manchester Pharmaceuticals LLC ("Manchester") under this ANDA. Manchester subsequently obtained Orphan Drug Designation for Chenodal for the treatment of cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis ("CTX") in 2010. 

There are currently no FDA approved products for CTX. While not approved, Chenodeoxycholic acid ("CDCA") has been used as the standard of care for CTX for over three decades. We are working to obtain FDA approval of Chenodal for the treatment of CTX, a rare autosomal recessive lipid storage disease. The prevalence of CTX is estimated in the literature to be as high as 1 in 70,000 in the overall population. Pathogenesis of CTX involves deficiency of the enzyme 27-hydroxylase (encoded by the gene CYP27A1), a rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of primary bile acids, including CDCA, from cholesterol. The disruption of primary bile acid synthesis in CTX leads to toxic accumulation of cholesterol and cholestanol in most tissues. Most patients present with intractable diarrhea, premature cataracts, tendon xanthomas, atherosclerosis, and cardiovascular disease in childhood and adolescence. Neurological manifestations of the disease, including dementia and cognitive and cerebellar deficiencies, emerge during late adolescence and adulthood. Oral administration of CDCA has been shown to normalize primary bile acid synthesis in patients with CTX. 

Cholbam 

The FDA approved Cholbam capsules in March 2015, the first FDA approved treatment for pediatric and adult patients with bile acid synthesis disorders due to single enzyme defects, and for adjunctive treatment of patients with peroxisomal disorders (including Zellweger spectrum disorders). The effectiveness of Cholbam has been demonstrated in clinical trials for bile acid synthesis disorders and the adjunctive treatment of peroxisomal disorders. Approximately 30 patients have transitioned from the open label extension trial to commercial product. The estimated incidence of bile acid synthesis disorders due to single enzyme defects is 1 to 9 per million live births. 

Kolbam, the bottled and branded name of Cholbam in Europe , &#32;is indicated in Europe for the treatment of inborn errors of primary bile acid synthesis, encompassing select single enzyme defects , in infants from one month of age for continuous lifelong treatment through adulthood, encompassing the following single enzyme defects: 

&#8226; 

sterol 27-hydroxylase (presenting as cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis, CTX) deficiency; 

&#8226; 

2- (or alpha-) methylacyl-CoA racemase (AMACR) deficiency; 

&#8226; 

cholesterol 7 alpha-hydroxylase (CYP7A1) deficiency. 

Thiola&#174; (Tiopronin) 

Thiola is approved by the FDA for the treatment of cystinuria, a rare genetic cystine transport disorder that causes high cystine levels in the urine and the formation of recurring kidney stones. The resulting long-term damage can cause loss of kidney function in addition to substantial pain and loss of productivity associated with renal colic and stone passage. The prevalence of cystinuria in the United States is estimated to be 10,000 to 12,000, indicating that there may be as many as 4,000 to 5,000 affected individuals with cystinuria in the United States that would be candidates for Thiola. We have built a sales force to promote Thiola to targeted physicians. 

Product Candidates: 

Sparsentan 

Sparsentan , &#32;also known as RE-021, is an investigational therapeutic agent which acts as both a potent angiotensin receptor blocker (&#8220;ARB&#8221;), as well as a selective endothelin receptor antagonist (&#8220;ERA&#8221;), with selectivity toward endothelin receptor type A. We are developing sparsentan as a treatment for Focal Segmental Glomerulosclerosis (&#8220;FSGS&#8221;), which is a leading cause of end-stage renal disease and Nephrotic Syndrome (&#8220;NS&#8221;). There are no FDA approved treatments for FSGS and the off-label armamentarium is limited to ACE/ARBs, steroids, and immunosuppressant agents, which are effective in only a subset of patients. We estimate that there are at least 40,000 FSGS patients in the United States. We are currently enrolling patients for the DUET Phase 2 clinical study of sparsentan for the treatment of FSGS and we anticipate having a top line data read out in the third quarter of 2016. Depending on the robustness of the data obtained in the DUET study, we may be able to support an application for accelerated approval for sparsentan on the basis of proteinuria as a surrogate endpoint. Sparsentan was granted orphan drug designation in the U.S. and EU in January and November 2015, respectively. 

RE-024 

We are developing RE-024, a novel small molecule, as a potential treatment for pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration (&#8220;PKAN&#8221;). PKAN is a genetic neurodegenerative disorder that is typically diagnosed in the first decade of life. Consequences of PKAN include dystonia, dysarthria, rigidity, retinal degeneration, and severe digestive problems. PKAN is estimated to affect 1 to 3 persons per million. There are currently no viable treatment options for patients with PKAN. RE-024 is a phosphopantothenate prodrug therapy that aims to restore levels of this key substrate in PKAN patients. Certain international health regulators have approved the initiation of dosing RE-024 in PKAN patients under physician-initiated studies in accordance with local regulations in their respective countries. The Company filed a U.S. IND for RE-024 with the FDA in the first quarter of 2015 to support the commencement of a Company-sponsored Phase 1 study, which was successfully completed during the year . RE-024 was granted orphan drug designation from the FDA in May 2015 and was granted fast track designation in June 2015. On February 24, 2016, we announced RE-024 was granted orphan drug designation from the European Commission. The Company has begun interacting with the FDA for a potential registration trial. 

RE-034 (Tetracosactide Zinc) 

RE-034 is a synthetic hormone analog of the first 24 amino acids of the 39 amino acids contained in ACTH incorporated into a novel formulation developed by the Company. RE-034 exhibits the same physiological actions as endogenous ACTH by binding to all five melanocortin receptors (pan-MCR), resulting in its anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory effects. Retrophin has successfully formulated and manufactured RE-034 at proof-of-concept scale using a novel formulation process that allows modulation of the release of the active ingredient from the site of administration. Retrophin continues preclinical development of RE-034 to enable multiple strategic options. 

Preclinical: 

NGLY1 

The Company entered into a research collaboration with the Grace Wilsey Foundation and the Warren Family Research Center for Drug Discovery and Development at the University of Notre Dame surrounding the development of a novel therapeutic for patients with NGLY1 deficiency, a rare genetic disorder. NGLY1 deficiency is believed to be caused by a deficiency in an enzyme called N-glycanase-1, which is encoded by the gene NGLY1. The condition is characterized by a variety of symptoms, including global developmental delay, movement disorder, seizures, and ocular abnormalities. Under this collaboration, the Grace Wilsey Foundation will provide support and funding to Retrophin to enable discovery efforts that aim to validate and address a new molecular target that may be relevant to NGLY1 deficiency. The Warren Family Research Center for Drug Discovery and Development at the University of Notre Dame will provide funding and in-kind research support to help Retrophin advance this program. 

Competition 

The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Most of our competitors are larger than us and have substantially greater financial, marketing and technical resources than we have. 

The development and commercialization of new products to treat orphan diseases is highly competitive, and we expect considerable competition from major pharmaceutical, biotechnology and specialty pharmaceutical companies. As a result, there are, and will likely continue to be, extensive research and substantial financial resources invested in the discovery and development of new orphan drug products. 

We are a company with a limited history of operations. Many of our competitors have substantially more resources than we do, including both financial and technical. Our competition will be determined in part by the potential indications for which drugs are developed and ultimately approved by regulatory authorities. The speed with which we can develop products, complete pre-clinical testing, clinical trials, approval processes, and supply commercial quantities to market are expected to be important competitive factors. We expect that competition among products approved for sale will be based on various factors, including product efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price, reimbursement, and patent position. 

Chenodal 

Statins lower cholesterol and have been studied as a treatment for CTX. However, statins deplete CoQ10 and thereby alter mitochondrial function, which is a theoretical concern because abnormal mitochondrial metabolism has been reported in CTX. Although data are sparse, statin monotherapy appears to have little or no benefit for CTX. However, statins may be useful for lowering cholestanol levels when combined with CDCA, and there is limited evidence that they provide additional clinical benefit over CDCA treatment alone. 

Cholbam 

In the U.S. there are currently no competitors. 

Thiola 

D-penicillamine is the only other prescription medication FDA approved for the treatment of cystinuria. D-penicillamine forms a penicillamine-cysteine disulfide that is 50 times more soluble than cystine. In uncontrolled trials and observational studies, penicillamine decreases stone size or dissolves stones in up to 75 percent of patients. The use of D-penicillamine is often limited by a relatively high incidence of side effects, such as fever, rash, abnormal taste, arthritis, leukopenia, aplastic anemia, hepatotoxicity, and pyridoxine (vitamin B6) deficiency. In addition, patients treated with penicillamine may develop proteinuria (usually due to membranous nephropathy), typically within the first 6 to 12 months of therapy, or, less commonly, crescentic glomerulonephritis. Given the high incidence of side effects, drug therapy may be discontinued once preexisting stones have dissolved. Additional courses can be given if stones recur. If penicillamine is to be used long term, pyridoxine supplementation (50 mg/day) is required. 

Captopril is not FDA approved for the treatment of cystinuria but has been prescribed for patients with cystinuria. The proportion of orally administered captopril that appears in the urine is low. Thus, the doses of captopril required to reduce cystine excretion (more than 150 mg/day) may not be tolerated because of hypotension. In addition, the efficacy of captopril as a treatment for cystinuria remains unproven. Thus, its use is typically limited to patients who cannot tolerate other cystine-binding agents. 

Imprimis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a specialty pharmaceutical company, announced plans to introduce a compounded form of tiopronin, the active ingredient in Thiola, in combination with potassium citrate. Compounded therapies are not subjected to the same level of safety and efficacy evaluation and may not offer the same therapeutic outcome for patients. There is no clinical data to support the compatibility of fixed dosing of tiopronin with potassium citrate. Fixed-dose combinations of therapies containing potassium are generally avoided due to the potential for fluctuations in serum potassium, which may cause serious adverse outcomes including cardiac events. 

Sparsentan 

There are currently no products approved for FSGS in Europe or the United States. Generally, patients with primary FSGS are treated using glucocorticoids such as predinisone as initial therapy when proteinuria is &#62;3.5 g/day and accompanied by hypoalbuminemia &#60;3.5 g/dL (&#60;35 g/L). Depending upon the response to and the toxicity from this therapy, the duration of prednisone therapy can vary from as short as 8 to 12 weeks to as long as one year. Some patients treated with glucocorticoids have only a transient remission or no remission whatsoever. 

RE-024 

There are currently no viable treatment options for patients with PKAN. 

RE-034 (Tetracosactide Zinc) 

Questcor&#8217;s H.P. Acthar Gel (repository corticotropin injection) is a highly purified sterile preparation of the adrenocorticotropic hormone in 16% gelatin. Acthar is the only approved long-lasting ACTH medication in the U.S. 

H.P. Acthar Gel is indicated for several diseases which would be a competitor for any indications we pursue. 

Amphastar&#8217;s Cortrosyn&#174; (cosyntropin) for injection use is a sterile Iyophilized powder in vials containing 0.25 mg of Cortrosyn&#174; and 10 mg of mannitol. Cortrosyn&#174; is indicated for the ACTH Stimulation Test which measures the ability of the adrenal cortex to respond to ACTH by producing cortisol appropriately. Administration is by intravenous or intramuscular injection. Currently, Cortrosyn is only approved as a diagnostic, not as a drug. Further, Cortrosyn is a short acting formulation of ACTH in contrast to Synacthen Depot and Acthar. 

Acquisition of Cholic Acid 

In January 2015, the Company announced the signing of a definitive agreement under which it acquired the exclusive option to purchase from Asklepion Pharmaceuticals, LLC all worldwide rights, titles, and ownership of Cholbam (cholic acid) for the treatment of bile acid synthesis defects, if approved by the Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA"). In March 2015, the FDA approved Cholbam capsules and the Company then exercised its option and acquired from Asklepion all worldwide rights, titles and ownership of Cholbam, including all related contracts, data assets, intellectual property, regulatory assets and a pediatric priority review voucher (the "PRV"). 

The total purchase price of the assets was $91.3 million. The Company paid Asklepion $33.4 million in cash, transferred 661,279 shares valued at $15.8 million and agreed to pay contingent consideration consisting of milestones and tier royalties. 

Kolbam in Europe 

Kolbam, the bottled and branded name of Cholbam in Europe, was approved in the European Union ("EU") in April 2014. In June 2015, the General Court of the EU annulled the marketing authorization (&#8220;MA&#8221;) for Kolbam due to a labeling conflict with the competitor product Orphacol. The EU Commission approved a new MA with revised labeling on November 20, 2015. 

Divestiture of Assets: 

Sale of Assets to Turing Pharmaceuticals 

On October 13, 2014, the Company entered into a binding Summary Separation Proposal with its then-current Chief Executive Officer. Among other things, the Summary Separation Proposal set forth a summary of the terms for the sale of the Company&#8217;s Vecamyl, Syntocinon and ketamine licenses and assets to Turing Pharmaceuticals, a company controlled by the former Chief Executive Officer. 

On January 9, 2015, the Company entered into a purchase agreement with Turing Pharmaceuticals pursuant to which the Company sold Turing Pharmaceuticals the Sold Assets for a purchase price of $1.0 million, and pursuant to which Turing Pharmaceuticals also assumed all future liabilities related to the Sold Assets. 

On February 13, 2015, the Sellers entered into a purchase agreement with Waldun, pursuant to which the Sellers sold Waldun the Vecamyl Product Rights for a purchase price of $0.7 million. Waldun in turn sold the Vecamyl Product Rights to Turing Pharmaceuticals. In connection therewith, on February 13, 2015, the Company, together with Manchester, entered into an asset purchase agreement with Turing Pharmaceuticals, pursuant to which the Company sold Turing Pharmaceuticals the Inventory for a purchase price of $0.3 million, and pursuant to which Turing Pharmaceuticals also assumed certain liabilities related to the Vecamyl Product Rights and the Inventory. 

On February 13, 2015, the Company entered into an asset purchase agreement with Turing Pharmaceuticals pursuant to which the Company sold Turing Pharmaceuticals its Oxytocin Assets, including related inventory, for a purchase price of $1.1 million, and pursuant to which Turing Pharmaceuticals also assumed certain liabilities related to the Oxytocin Assets. 

The total impact to the Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) related to the divestitures for 2015 was $0.9 million. See Note 9. to the financial statements for more information. 

Sale of Asset to Sanofi 

On July 2, 2015, the Company sold and transferred the PRV to Sanofi for $245.0 million. $150.0 million was received upon closing, and $47.5 million is due on each of the first and second anniversaries of the closing. The Company recorded the future short term and long term receivables at their present value of $46.2 million and $44.9 million, respectively, at the date of the sale. The gain from the sale of the asset was approximately $140.0 million, net of $4.9 million in fees contractually due as part of the Cholbam acquisition. 

Licenses and Royalties 

Ligand License 

We have a worldwide license from Ligand for the development, manufacture and commercialization of sparsentan, an ARB and ERA which we are initially developing in connection with the treatment of FSGS. Under the license agreement, Ligand granted us a sublicense under certain of its patents and other intellectual property in connection with the development and commercialization of sparsentan. Under the license agreement, Ligand is obligated to transfer to us certain information, records, regulatory filings, materials and inventory controlled by Ligand and relating to or useful for developing sparsentan. We must use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize sparsentan in specified major market countries and other countries in which we believe it is commercially reasonable to develop and commercialize such products. 

As consideration for the license, we are required to make payments upon the achievement of certain milestones, totaling up to $109.4 million. Should we commercialize sparsentan or any products containing any of these compounds, we will be obligated to pay Ligand an escalating annual royalty between 15% and 17% of net sales of all such products. Through 2015 , we made payments to Ligand of $3.8 million under the terms of the license agreement. 

Under the terms of the license agreement, Bristol-Myers Squibb will have a right of first negotiation and Ligand will have a right of second negotiation with respect to any license arrangement for a licensed compound. 

The license agreement will continue until neither party has any further payment obligations under the agreement and is expected to continue for approximately 10 to 20 years. Ligand may also terminate the license agreement due to (i) our insolvency, (ii) our material uncured breach of the agreement, (iii) our failure to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize sparsentan as described above or (iv) certain other conditions. We may terminate the license agreement due to a material uncured breach of the agreement by Ligand. 

In September 2015, the license agreement was amended to facilitate sub-licensing in Asia-Pacific. As consideration for the amendment Retrophin paid $1.0 million. 

Thiola&#174; License Agreement 

In 2014, the Company entered into a license agreement with Mission Pharmacal Company ("Mission"), in which the Company obtained an exclusive, royalty-bearing license to market, sell and commercialize Thiola (Tiopronin) in the United States and Canada, and a non-exclusive license to use know-how relating to Thiola to the extent necessary to market Thiola. 

The Company paid Mission an up-front license fee of $3.0 million and will pay guaranteed minimum royalties during each calendar year the greater of $2.0 million or 20% of the Company&#8217;s net sales of Thiola through June 30, 2024. As of December 31, 2015 , the present value of guaranteed minimum royalties payable is $10.9 million, using a discount rate of approximately 11% based on the Company&#8217;s borrowing rate at that point. As of December 31, 2015 , the guaranteed minimum royalties&#8217; current and long term liability is approximately $0.8 million and $10.1 million, respectively, and is recorded as guaranteed minimum royalty in the consolidated balance sheet. The Company has capitalized $24.1 million &#32;related to the Thiola asset which consists of the up-front license fee, professional fees, present value of the guaranteed minimum royalties and any additional payments through 2015 &#32;in excess of minimum royalties. 

In October 2015, the license agreement was amended to allow for Retrophin secure enough active pharmaceutical ingredient ("API") to ensure an adequate level safety stock to prevent an interruption in the supply of Thiola and to prepare for a potential reformulation development project. 

Intellectual Property 

The proprietary nature of, and protection for, our product candidates and our discovery programs, processes and know-how are important to our business. We have sought patent protection in the United States and certain other jurisdictions for sparsentan, RE-024, RE-034 and certain other inventions to which we have rights, where available and when appropriate. Our policy is to pursue, maintain and defend patent rights, whether developed internally or licensed from third parties, and to protect the technology, inventions and improvements that are commercially important to the development of our business. We also rely on trade secrets relating to our proprietary technology that may be important to the development of our business. 

Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection for our current and future product candidates and the methods used to develop and manufacture them, as well as successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. Our ability to stop third parties from making, using, selling, offering to sell, or importing our products depends on the extent to which we have rights under valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets that cover these activities. We cannot be sure that patents will be granted with respect to any of our pending patent applications or with respect to any patent applications filed by us in the future, nor can we be sure that any of our existing patents or any patents that may be granted to us in the future will be commercially useful in protecting our product candidates, discovery programs and processes. 

Sparsentan (RE-021) 

Our patent portfolio for sparsentan is comprised of two distinct patent families, both of which are exclusively licensed from Ligand. One of these patent families is owned by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (&#8220;BMS&#8221;), which exclusively licensed it to Ligand (the &#8220;BMS patent family&#8221;), and the other is owned by Ligand (the &#8220;Ligand patent family&#8221;). 

The BMS patent family is directed to sparsentan and structural analogs thereof, and to pharmaceutical compositions containing sparsentan or a structural analog thereof. As of December 31, 2016, this patent family included three U.S. patents (U.S. Patent Nos. 6,638,937, which we refer to herein as the &#8216;937 patent; 6,835,741; and 6,852,745), of which one (U.S. Patent No. 6,638,937) claims sparsentan and pharmaceutical compositions that contain 

sparsentan. In addition, as of December 31, 2016, this patent family included a granted European patent and a granted Chinese patent. With the exception of the &#8216;937 patent, which the U.S. Patent and Trade Office ("USPTO") has determined is entitled to 175 days of patent term adjustment, we expect all U.S. and foreign patents in this patent family to expire in July 2019. In view of the USPTO determination that the &#8216;937 patent is entitled to 175 days of patent term adjustment, we expect the &#8216;937 patent to expire in December 2019. 

The Ligand patent family is directed to methods of using sparsentan in the treatment of glomerulosclerosis. As of December 31, 2016, this patent family included applications pending in the United States (Application Serial No. 14/631,768, filed February 25, 2015), China, Europe, Hong Kong and Japan. We expect any U.S. and foreign patents granted in this patent family to expire in March 2030. 

It is possible, assuming that sparsentan achieves regulatory approval and depending upon the date of any such approval, that the term of the &#8216;937 patent may be extended up to a maximum of five additional years under the provisions of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, also referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Act. Patent term extension also may be available in certain foreign jurisdictions upon regulatory approval. 

PKAN (RE-024) 

Our patent portfolio covering compounds for the treatment of PKAN is comprised of three Retrophin-owned patent families. The first of these three patent families includes patents and patent applications directed to RE-024 and structural analogs thereof, pharmaceutical compositions containing RE-024 or analogs thereof, and methods of using RE-024 or analogs thereof in the treatment of PKAN. As of December 31, 2015, this patent family included two U.S. patents (U.S. Patent No. 8,673,883, issued March 18, 2014, which we refer to herein as the &#8216;883 patent, and U.S. Patent No. 9,181,286, issued November 10, 2015), one pending U.S. patent application (Application Serial No. 14/871,450, filed September 30, 2015) and corresponding foreign patent applications pending in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Europe, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Korea, Mexico, and Russia. We expect all U.S. and foreign patents in this patent family to expire in April 2033. 

Our second PKAN patent family is directed to a chemical genus that encompasses structural analogs of RE-024, but not RE-024 itself. As of December 31, 2015, this patent family was comprised of International Patent Application PCT/US2014/062451, filed October 27, 2014. We expect any U.S. or foreign patent family granted in this patent family to expire in October 2034. 

Our third PKAN patent family is directed to a chemical genus that encompasses structural analogs of RE-024, but not RE-024 itself. As of December 31, 2015, this patent family was comprised of a U.S. provisional patent application filed in 2015. 

It is possible, assuming that RE-024 achieves regulatory approval and depending upon the date of any such approval, that the term of the &#8216;883&#8217; patent may be extended up to a maximum of five additional years under the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act. Patent term extension also may be available in certain foreign jurisdictions upon regulatory approval. Should we commercialize RE-024, we may be obligated to pay royalties of up to 5% of net sales of all such products. 

RE-034 (Tetracosactide Zinc) 

Our patent portfolio for RE-034 is comprised of a U.S. provisional patent application filed in February 2015. 

Regulatory Exclusivity 

If we obtain marketing approval for sparsentan, RE-024, RE-034,or other drug candidates in the United States or in certain jurisdictions outside of the United States, we may be eligible for regulatory protection. For example, in the U.S. an FDA approved product may be eligible to receive five years of new chemical entity exclusivity or, for drugs granted an orphan designation by the FDA, seven years of orphan drug exclusivity. In Europe a new drug product approved by the EMA may receive eight years of data exclusivity and up to 11 years of marketing exclusivity or, in the case of orphan drugs, ten years of data exclusivity. There can be no assurance that we will qualify for any such regulatory exclusivity, or that any such exclusivity will prevent competitors from seeking approval solely on the basis of their own studies. See &#8220;Government Regulation&#8221; below. 

Chenodal 

Chenodal received orphan drug designation in the U.S. for the treatment of CTX in 2010. Consequently, if Chenodal gains FDA approval for the treatment of CTX it will have 7 years of marketing exclusivity in the U.S. for that indication. We are not currently pursuing EMA authorization to market Chenodal in Europe. 

Cholbam (Kolbam) 

Cholbam received orphan drug designation in the U.S. for the treatment for pediatric and adult patients with bile acid synthesis disorders due to single enzyme defects and for patients with peroxisomal disorders, and therefore will have marketing exclusivity in the U.S. for these indications until March 2022. 

Kolbam, the bottled and branded name of Cholbam in Europe , received marketing authorization in November 2015 from the EMA for the treatment of inborn errors of primary bile acid synth esis, encompassing select single enzyme defects. Kolbam &#32;will have marketing exclusivity in Europe for these indications until September 2024. 

Thiola 

Thiola does not have regulatory exclusivity in the U.S. 

Trademarks 

Our trademark portfolio is comprised a registered U.S. trademark and U.S. and foreign trademark applications for the mark &#8220;RETROPHIN&#8221;, one U.S. trademark application directed to the Retrophin logo, one registered U.S. trademark and one registered Canadian trademark for the mark &#8220;CHENODAL&#8221;, one registered U.S. trademark directed to the Chenodal logo, one registered U.S. trademark for the mark &#8220;MANCHESTER PHARMACEUTICALS&#8221;, one U.S. trademark application for the mark &#8220;KEEP IT BELOW THE LINE&#8221;, a registered U.S. trademark and foreign trademark applications for the mark &#8220;CHOLBAM&#8221;, a registered European Community trademark for the mark &#8220;KOLBAM&#8221;, a registered U.S. trademark for the mark &#8220;TOTAL CARE HUB&#8221;, a U.S. trademark application directed to the Total Care Hub logo, and a U.S. trademark application directed a leaves logo. In addition, under our license agreement with Mission we have an exclusive license to use Mission&#8217;s three registered U.S. trademarks and one registered Canadian trademark for the mark &#8220;THIOLA&#8221;. 

Trade Secrets 

In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and know-how to develop and maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect our proprietary data and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements and invention assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors, contractors, and partners. These agreements are designed to protect our proprietary information. We also seek to preserve the integrity and confidentiality of our data, trade secrets and know-how by maintaining physical security of our premises and physical and electronic security of our information technology systems. Trade secrets and know-how can be difficult to protect. Consequently, we anticipate that trade secrets and know-how will, over time, be disseminated within the industry through independent development, the publication of journal articles, and the movement of personnel skilled in the art from academic to industry scientific positions. 

Manufacturing and Distribution 

Nexgen Pharma manufactures Chenodal, New Zealand Pharma manufactures the API and Patheon formulates and packages Cholbam, and Mission manufactures Thiola. Dohmen Life Sciences Services (&#8220;Dohmen&#8221;) is our distributor. &#160; 

We intend to continue to use our financial resources to accelerate development of our drug candidates rather than diverting resources to establish our own manufacturing facilities. We intend to meet our pre-clinical and clinical trial manufacturing requirements by establishing relationships with third-party manufacturers and other service providers to perform these services for us. 

Should any of our drug candidates obtain marketing approval, we anticipate establishing relationships with third-party manufacturers and other service providers in connection with the commercial production of our products. We have some flexibility in securing other manufacturers to produce our drug candidates; however, our alternatives may be limited due to proprietary technologies or methods used in the manufacture of some of our drug candidates. 

Sales and Marketing 

During fiscal 2015, we continued to build a specialty sales force to market our products. In order to commercialize our clinical drug candidates if and when they are approved for sale in the United States or elsewhere, we will need to increase our marketing, sales and distribution capabilities. 

Commercialization 

Through deep understanding of patient and healthcare provider needs, we believe the Company is able to: 

&#8226; 

serve patients living with rare disease that have limited treatment options; 

&#8226; 

drive optimum performance of its marketed products; 

&#8226; 

educate and train healthcare providers about our products and the diseases for which they are approved to treat; 

&#8226; 

support access to and reimbursement coverage for our products in the U.S. without significant restrictions; and 

&#8226; 

minimize the number of patients who discontinue treatment or have low compliance with our products by providing patients with support services and disease education, to the extent and in the manner permitted under applicable laws, to help them maximize the benefits of treatment. 

Our U.S. commercial initiatives are designed to support patients living with rare diseases and clinicians treating these patients. We believe that it is possible to commercialize our products in the U.S. with a relatively small specialty sales force. The primary call points for Thiola include urologists and nephrologists. The primary call points for Cholbam are gastroenterologists, hepatologists, and metabolic specialists. We do not promote Chenodal with our sales force. 

Our sales force is differentiated by its high level of experience, averaging more than 15 years in pharmaceutical sales including over five years of experience in rare disease. Our commercial management and operations team has an average of more then 15 years of pharmaceutical experience focused on specialty and rare disease. 

Our small marketing team, supported by third-party agencies with rare disease experience, drives our commercialization and disease awareness efforts in the U.S. and countries where our products may be approved or available through named patient sales. Specifically, we implement a variety of marketing programs to educate physicians, including direct-to-physician contact by sales representatives, peer-to-peer educational programs, and participation in targeted medical convention programs. 

We distribute our products through one direct to patient pharmacy, Dohmen Life Sciences Services, who also provide our comprehensive patient support services (i.e, the Total Care Hub). This patient support program (for all U.S. commercial products) includes a case-managed approach to patient education, insurance verification and reimbursement support, co-pay and other financial assistance for eligible patients, monitoring and support of adherence, and 24/7 access to pharmacist counseling. 

Outside the U.S., including in the EU, we have hired region managers and other field-based employees in certain key countries and plan to hire medical or commercial field-based personnel where needed to engage in educational activities. In certain countries outside the U.S., we have engaged, or plan to engage, local distributors to conduct permitted commercial activities. Our near-term efforts are focused on securing pricing and reimbursement approval for Kolbam/Cholbam. 

Medical Affairs 

We have a medical affairs team in the U.S. which supports independent medical education programs and investigator-initiated studies by providing education and financial grants in a number of medical and disease-related areas. The responsibilities of medical affairs personnel also include providing education through the dissemination of medical information and publications, providing support in connection with our post-approval clinical commitments, and assisting in organizing scientific and medical advisory boards to obtain input from experts and practitioners on medical topics relevant to our products and diseases. 

Government Regulation 

Regulation by government authorities in the United States and foreign countries is a significant factor in the development, manufacture and marketing of our proposed products and in our ongoing research and product development activities. All of our products will require regulatory approval by government agencies prior to commercialization. In particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical studies and clinical trials and other approval procedures of the FDA and similar regulatory authorities in foreign countries. Various federal and state statutes and regulations also govern or influence testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage and record-keeping related to such products and their marketing. The process of obtaining these approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal and state statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. &#160; 

FDA Drug Approval Process 

In the United States, pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, and other federal and state statutes and regulations, govern, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, storage, recordkeeping, approval, labeling, promotion and marketing, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, sampling and import and export of pharmaceutical products. Failure to comply with applicable U.S. requirements may subject a company to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, such as FDA refusal to approve pending new drug applications, or NDAs, warning or untitled letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, civil penalties and criminal prosecution. 

We cannot market a drug product candidate in the United States until the drug has received FDA approval. The steps required before a drug may be marketed in the United States generally include the following: 

&#8226; 

completion of extensive pre-clinical laboratory tests, animal studies, and formulation studies in accordance with the FDA&#8217;s GLP regulations; 

&#8226; 

submission to the FDA of an IND for human clinical testing, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin; 

&#8226; 

performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials in accordance with GCP requirements to establish the safety and efficacy of the drug for each proposed indication; 

&#8226; 

submission to the FDA of an NDA after completion of all pivotal clinical trials; 

&#8226; 

satisfactory completion of an FDA pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, and finished drug product are produced and tested to assess compliance with cGMPs; and 

&#8226; 

FDA review and approval of the NDA prior to any commercial marketing or sale of the drug in the United States. 

Satisfaction of FDA pre-market approval requirements typically takes many years and the actual time required may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product or disease. 

Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry, formulation and toxicity, as well as animal trials to assess the characteristics and potential safety and efficacy of the product. The conduct of the preclinical tests must comply with federal regulations and requirements, including good laboratory practices. The results of preclinical testing are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND along with other information, including information about product chemistry, manufacturing and controls and a proposed clinical trial protocol. Long term preclinical tests, such as animal tests of reproductive toxicity and carcinogenicity, may continue after the IND is submitted. 

A 30-day waiting period after the submission of each IND is required prior to the commencement of clinical testing in humans. If the FDA has neither commented on nor questioned the IND within this 30-day period, the clinical trial proposed in the IND may begin. If the FDA raises concerns or questions about the conduct of the trial, such as whether human research subjects will be exposed to an unreasonable health risk, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding FDA concerns or questions before clinical trials can proceed. 

Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational new drug to healthy volunteers or patients under the supervision of a qualified investigator. Clinical trials must be conducted in compliance with federal regulations, including GCP requirements, as well as under protocols detailing the objectives of the trial, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol and subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. 

The FDA may order the temporary, or permanent, discontinuation of a clinical trial at any time, or impose other sanctions, if it believes that the clinical trial either is not being conducted in accordance with FDA requirements or presents an unacceptable risk to the clinical trial patients. The study protocol and informed consent information for patients in clinical trials must also be submitted to an institutional review board, or IRB, for approval at each site at which the clinical trial will be conducted. An IRB may also require the clinical trial at the site to be halted, either temporarily or permanently, for failure to comply with the IRB&#8217;s requirements, or may impose other conditions. 

Clinical trials to support NDAs for marketing approval are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap. In Phase 1, the initial introduction of the drug into healthy human subjects or patients, the drug is tested to assess pharmacological actions, side effects associated with increasing doses and, if possible, early evidence on effectiveness. Phase 2 usually involves trials in a limited patient population to determine metabolism, pharmacokinetics, the effectiveness of the drug for a particular indication, dosage tolerance and optimum dosage, and to identify common adverse effects and safety risks. If a compound demonstrates evidence of effectiveness and an acceptable safety profile in Phase 2 evaluations, Phase 3 clinical trials, also called pivotal trials, are undertaken to obtain the additional information about clinical efficacy and safety in a larger number of patients, typically at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites, to permit the FDA to evaluate the overall benefit-risk relationship of the drug and to provide adequate information for the labeling of the drug. In most cases the FDA requires two adequate and well controlled Phase 3 clinical trials to demonstrate the efficacy of the drug. A single Phase 3 clinical trial with other confirmatory evidence may be sufficient in rare instances where the study is a large multicenter trial demonstrating internal consistency and a statistically very persuasive finding of a clinically meaningful effect on mortality, irreversible morbidity or prevention of a disease with a potentially serious outcome and confirmation of the result in a second trial would be practically or ethically impossible. 

After completion of the required clinical testing, an NDA is prepared and submitted to the FDA. FDA approval of the NDA is required before marketing of the product may begin in the United States. The NDA must include the results of all preclinical, clinical and other testing and a compilation of data relating to the product&#8217;s pharmacology, chemistry, manufacture and controls. The cost of preparing and submitting an NDA is substantial. The submission of most NDAs is additionally subject to a substantial application user fee, and the manufacturer and/or sponsor under an approved NDA are also subject to annual product and establishment user fees. These fees are typically increased annually. 

The FDA has 60 days from its receipt of an NDA to determine whether the application will be accepted for filing based on the agency&#8217;s threshold determination that it is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review. The FDA has agreed to certain performance goals in the review of NDAs. Most such applications for standard review drug products are reviewed within 10 to 12 months; most applications for priority review drugs are reviewed in six to eight months. Priority review can be applied to drugs to treat serious conditions that the FDA determines offer significant improvement in safety or effectiveness. The review process for both standard and priority review may be extended by the FDA for three additional months to consider certain late-submitted information, or information intended to clarify information already provided in the submission. 

The FDA may also refer applications for novel drug products, or drug products that present difficult questions of safety or efficacy, to an advisory committee&#8212;typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts&#8212;for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it generally follows such recommendations. Before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCPs. Additionally, the FDA will inspect the facility or the facilities at which the drug is manufactured. The FDA will not approve the product unless compliance with cGMPs is satisfactory and the NDA contains data that provide substantial evidence that the drug is safe and effective in the indication studied. 

After the FDA evaluates the NDA and the manufacturing facilities, it issues either an approval letter or a complete response letter. A complete response letter generally outlines the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing, or information, in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. If, or when, those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA&#8217;s satisfaction in a resubmission of the NDA, the FDA will issue an approval letter. The FDA has committed to reviewing such resubmissions in two or six months depending on the type of information included. 

An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. As a condition of NDA approval, the FDA may require risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (" REMS") to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the potential risks. REMS can include a medication guide, a communication plan for healthcare professionals and elements to assure safe use, such as special training and certification requirements for individuals who prescribe or dispense the drug, requirements that patients enroll in a registry and other measures that the FDA deems necessary to assure the safe use of the drug. The requirement for REMS can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the drug. Moreover, product approval may require substantial post-approval testing and surveillance to monitor the drug&#8217;s safety or efficacy. Once granted, product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or problems are identified following initial marketing. 

Changes to some of the conditions established in an approved application, including changes in indications, labeling, or manufacturing processes or facilities, require submission and FDA approval of a new NDA or NDA supplement before the change can be implemented. An NDA supplement for a new indication typically requires clinical data similar to that in the original application, and the FDA uses the same procedures and actions in reviewing NDA supplements as it does in reviewing NDAs. Such supplements are typically reviewed within 10 months of receipt. 

Orphan Drugs 

Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition&#8212;generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an NDA. After the FDA confers orphan drug status, the generic identity of the drug and its potential orphan indication are disclosed publicly by the FDA. Orphan drug designation in and of itself does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. The first NDA applicant to receive FDA approval for a particular active ingredient to treat a particular indication with FDA orphan drug designation is entitled to a seven-year exclusive marketing period in the U.S. for that product, for that indication. During the seven-year exclusivity period, the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same disease, except in limited circumstances, such as a showing of clinical superiority to the product with orphan drug exclusivity. Orphan drug exclusivity does not prevent FDA from approving a different drug for the same disease or condition, or the same drug for a different disease or condition. Prior to FDA approval, orphan designation provides incentives for sponsors including tax credits for clinical research expenses, the opportunity to obtain government grant funding to support clinical research, and an exemption from FDA user fees. 

Fast Track Designation 

Fast track is a process designed by the FDA to facilitate the development of drugs to treat serious conditions through expediting their review. The purpose is to get important new drugs to patients earlier. Fast Track addresses a broad range of serious conditions. Determining whether a condition is serious is a matter of judgment, but generally is based on whether the drug will have an impact on such factors as survival, day-to-day functioning, or the likelihood that the condition, if left untreated, will progress from a less severe condition to a more serious one. 

A drug that receives Fast Track designation is eligible for some or all of the following: 

&#8226; 

More frequent meetings with FDA to discuss the drug's development plan and ensure collection of appropriate data needed to support drug approval; 

&#8226; 

More frequent written communication from FDA about such things as the design of the proposed clinical trials and use of biomarkers; 

&#8226; 

Eligibility for Accelerated Approval and Priority Review, if relevant criteria are met; and 

&#8226; 

Rolling Review, which means that a drug company can submit completed sections of its Biologic License Application (BLA) or NDA for review by FDA, rather than waiting until every section is completed before the entire application can be reviewed. BLA or NDA review usually does not begin until the drug company has submitted the entire application to the FDA. 

Once a drug receives Fast Track designation, early and frequent communication between the FDA and a drug company is encouraged throughout the entire drug development and review process. The frequency of communication assures that questions and issues are resolved quickly, often leading to earlier drug approval and access by patients. 

Accelerated Approval 

Under the FDA&#8217;s accelerated approval regulations, FDA may approve a drug for a serious or life-threatening illness that provides meaningful therapeutic benefit to patients over existing treatments based upon a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit, or on a clinical endpoint that can be measured earlier than irreversible morbidity or mortality, that is reasonably likely to predict an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit, taking into account the severity, rarity, or prevalence of the condition and the availability or lack of alternative treatments. 

In clinical trials, a surrogate endpoint is a measurement of laboratory or clinical signs of a disease or condition that substitutes for a direct measurement of how a patient feels, functions, or survives. Surrogate endpoints can often be measured more easily or more rapidly than clinical endpoints. A drug candidate approved on this basis is subject to rigorous post-marketing compliance requirements, including the completion of Phase 4 or post-approval clinical trials to confirm the effect on the clinical endpoint. Failure to conduct required post-approval studies, or confirm a clinical benefit during post-marketing studies, will allow FDA to withdraw the drug from the market on an expedited basis. All promotional materials for drug candidates approved under accelerated regulations are subject to prior review by FDA. 

The Hatch-Waxman Amendments: Orange Book Listing 

In seeking approval for a drug through an NDA, applicants are required to list with the FDA each patent whose claims cover the applicant&#8217;s product. Upon approval of a drug, each of the patents listed in the application for the drug is then published in the FDA&#8217;s Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, commonly known as the Orange Book. Drugs listed in the Orange Book can, in turn, be cited by potential generic competitors in support of approval of an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA. An ANDA provides for marketing of a drug product that has the same active ingredients in the same strengths and dosage form as the listed drug and has been shown through bioequivalence testing to be therapeutically equivalent to the listed drug. Other than the requirement for bioequivalence testing, ANDA applicants are not required to conduct, or submit results of, pre-clinical or clinical tests to prove the safety or effectiveness of their drug product. Drugs approved in this way are commonly referred to as &#8220;generic equivalents&#8221; to the listed drug, and can often be substituted by pharmacists under prescriptions written for the original listed drug. 

The ANDA applicant is required to certify to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the approved product in the FDA&#8217;s Orange Book. Specifically, the applicant must certify that: (i) the required patent information has not been filed; (ii) the listed patent has expired; (iii) the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or (iv) the listed patent is invalid or will not be infringed by the new product. The ANDA applicant may also elect to submit a section viii statement certifying that its proposed ANDA label does not contain (or carves out) any language regarding the patented method-of-use rather than certify to a listed method-of-use patent. If the applicant does not challenge the listed patents, the ANDA application will not be approved until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired. 

A certification that the new product will not infringe the already approved product&#8217;s listed patents, or that such patents are invalid, is called a Paragraph IV certification. If the ANDA applicant has provided a Paragraph IV certification to the FDA, the applicant must also send notice of the Paragraph IV certification to the NDA and patent holders once the ANDA has been accepted for filing by the FDA. The NDA and patent holders may then initiate a patent infringement lawsuit in response to the notice of the Paragraph IV certification. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days of the receipt of a Paragraph IV certification automatically prevents the FDA from approving the ANDA until the earlier of 30 months, expiration of the patent, settlement of the lawsuit, or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the ANDA applicant. 

The ANDA application also will not be approved until any applicable non-patent exclusivity listed in the Orange Book for the referenced product has expired. 

Post-Approval Requirements 

Once an NDA is approved, a product will be subject to certain post-approval requirements. For instance, the FDA closely regulates the post-approval marketing and promotion of drugs, including standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising, off-label promotion, industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities and promotional activities involving the internet and social media. Drugs may be marketed only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved labeling. 

Adverse event reporting and submission of periodic reports is required following FDA approval of an NDA. The FDA also may require post-marketing testing, known as Phase 4 testing, REMS, surveillance to monitor the effects of an approved product, or restrictions on the distribution or use of the product. In addition, quality-control, drug manufacture, packaging and labeling procedures must continue to conform to cGMPs after approval. Drug manufacturers and certain of their subcontractors are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies. Registration with the FDA subjects entities to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA, during which the agency inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMPs. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the areas of production and quality-control to maintain compliance with cGMPs. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in, among other things: 

&#8226; 

restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, complete withdrawal of the product from the market or product recalls; 

&#8226; 

fines, warning letters or holds on post-approval clinical trials; 

&#8226; 

refusal of the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications, or suspension or revocation of product approvals; 

&#8226; 

product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; or 

&#8226; 

injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. 

Pricing and Reimbursement 

A portion of our end-user demand for our drugs comes from patients covered under Medicaid, Medicare and other federal and state government-related programs such as TRICARE and the Department of Veterans Affairs, or the VA. As required by Federal regulations, we will provide rebates and discounts in connection with these programs. 

Our commercial success depends in significant part on the extent to which coverage and adequate reimbursement for these products will be available from third-party payers, including government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Third-party payers determine which medications they will cover and establish reimbursement levels. Even if a third-party payer covers a particular product, the resulting reimbursement payment rates may not be adequate or may require co-payments that patients find unacceptably high. Patients who are prescribed medications for the treatment of their conditions, and their prescribing physicians, generally rely on third-party payers to reimburse all or part of the costs associated with their prescription drugs. Patients are unlikely to use our products unless coverage is provided and reimbursement is adequate to cover all or a significant portion of the cost of our products. Therefore, coverage and adequate reimbursement is critical to product acceptance. 

Government authorities and other third-party payers are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs, such as by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. Increasingly, third-party payers are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices as a condition of coverage, are using restrictive formularies and preferred drug lists to leverage greater discounts in competitive classes, and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. Third party payers also are carefully evaluating the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, in addition to their safety and efficacy, which may require us to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of our products. Further, no uniform policy requirement for coverage and reimbursement for drug products exists among third-party payers in the United States. Therefore, coverage and reimbursement for drug products can differ significantly from payer to payer. As a result, the coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that will require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our products to each payer separately, with no assurance that coverage and adequate reimbursement will be applied consistently or obtained in the first instance. 

In addition, it is possible that future legislation in the United States and other jurisdictions could be enacted which could potentially impact the coverage and reimbursement rates for our products and also could further impact the levels of discounts and rebates paid to federal and state government entities. Any legislation that impacts these areas could impact, in a significant way, our ability to generate revenues from sales of products that, if successfully developed, we bring to market. 

There have been a number of enacted or proposed legislative and regulatory changes affecting the healthcare system and pharmaceutical industry that could affect our commercial success. For example, in March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care 

Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, (collectively, the &#8220;Health Care Reform Law&#8221;) a law intended to, among other things, broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against healthcare fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers and impose additional health policy reforms. Among other things, the Health Care Reform Law expanded manufacturers&#8217; rebate liability under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, which could increase the amount of Medicaid drug rebates manufacturers are required to pay to states. The Health Care Reform Law also expanded the types of entities eligible to receive discounted 340B pricing, although, with the exception of children&#8217;s hospitals, these newly eligible entities will not be eligible to receive discounted 340B pricing on orphan drugs used in orphan indications. The Health Care Reform Law also imposed a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import certain branded prescription drug products. Furthermore, the Health Care Reform Law changed the Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program by requiring manufacturers to provide a 50% point-of-sale-discount off the negotiated price of applicable brand drugs to certain eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period as a condition for the manufacturers&#8217; outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D. 

In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the Health Care Reform Law was enacted. For example, in August 2011, the President signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, created the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend to Congress proposals in spending reductions. The Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for fiscal years 2012 through 2021, triggering the legislation&#8217;s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect beginning on April 1, 2013 and will stay in effect through 2024 unless additional Congressional action is taken. Additionally, in January 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals and imaging centers. 

Moreover, the Drug Supply Chain Security Act imposes new obligations on manufacturers of pharmaceutical products related to product tracking and tracing. Legislative and regulatory proposals have been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. We are not sure whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or whether the current regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes on our business, if any, may be. 

There has been increasing legislative and enforcement interest in the United States with respect to drug pricing practices, including several recent U.S. Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, increase drug pricing transparency, review relationships between pricing and manufacturer patient assistance programs, and reform government program drug reimbursement methodologies. We expect that the Health Care Reform Law, as well as other federal and state healthcare reform measures that have been and may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and in additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any of our products, and could seriously harm our future revenues. 

In addition, it is possible that future legislation in the United States and other jurisdictions could be enacted which could potentially impact the reimbursement rates for the products we are developing and may develop in the future and also could further impact the levels of discounts and rebates paid to federal and state government entities. Any legislation that impacts these areas could impact, in a significant way, our ability to generate revenues from sales of products that, if successfully developed, we bring to market. 

Health Care Regulatory Laws 

In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal laws have been applied to restrict certain business practices in the pharmaceutical industry in recent years. These laws include, without limitation, anti-kickback statutes and false claims laws, data privacy and security laws, and transparency laws regarding payments or other items of value provided to healthcare providers. 

The federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce; or in return for; purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted broadly to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers, and formulary managers, among others, on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution or other regulatory sanctions, the exceptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration that may induce prescribing, purchases, or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Failure to meet all of the requirements of a particular applicable statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor does not make the conduct per se illegal under the anti-kickback statute. Instead, the legality of the arrangement will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis based on a cumulative review of all its facts and circumstances. Several courts have interpreted the statute&#8217;s intent requirement to mean that if any one purpose of an arrangement involving remuneration is to induce referrals of federal healthcare covered business, the federal anti-kickback statute has been violated. Additionally, Health Care Reform Law amended the federal anti-kickback statute to a stricter standard such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. In addition, the Health Care Reform Law codified case law that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal civil False Claims Act. 

Federal false claims laws, including the civil False Claims Act, prohibit any person or entity from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to have a false claim paid. This includes claims made to programs where the federal government reimburses, such as Medicaid, as well as programs where the federal government is a direct purchaser, such as when it purchases off the Federal Supply Schedule. The False Claims Act contains qui tam provisions, which allow a private individual, or relator, to bring a civil action on behalf of the federal government alleging that the defendant submitted a false claim to the federal government, and to share in any monetary recovery. In recent years, the number of suits brought by private individuals has increased dramatically. For example, pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly inflating drug prices they report to 

pricing services, which in turn were used by the government to set Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, and for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. In addition, certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, may also violate federal false claims laws. 

The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with antibribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices or may require us to interact with doctors and hospitals, some of which may be state controlled, in a manner that is different than in the United States. We cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in criminal or civil penalties or remedial measures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. 

The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit among other actions, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private third-party payers, and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. Like the federal anti-kickback statute, the Health Care Reform Law amended the intent standard for certain healthcare fraud provisions under HIPAA such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. 

Additionally, the civil monetary penalties statute imposes penalties against any person or entity that, among other things, is determined to have presented or caused to be presented a claim to a federal health program that the person knows or should know is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent. 

Also, many states have similar fraud and abuse statutes or regulations , including state anti-kickback and false claims laws, that apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. 

In addition, we may be subject to data privacy and security regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, and their respective implementing regulations, imposes specified requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. Among other things, HITECH, through its implementing regulations, makes certain of HIPAA&#8217;s privacy and security standards directly applicable to business associates, defined as a person or organization, other than a member of a covered entity&#8217;s workforce, that creates, receives, maintains or transmits protected health information for or on behalf of a covered entity for a function or activity regulated by HIPAA. 

Additionally, the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act within the Health Care Reform Law, and its implementing regulations, require that certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologicals and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children&#8217;s Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to annually report information related to certain payments or other transfers of value made or distributed to physicians and teaching hospitals, or to entities or individuals at the request of, or designated on behalf of, the physicians and teaching hospitals and to report annually certain ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members. Certain states also require implementation of commercial compliance programs and compliance with the pharmaceutical industry&#8217;s voluntary compliance guidelines and the applicable compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government, or otherwise restrict payments or the provision of other items of value that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; impose restrictions on marketing practices; require the registration of sales representatives; or require drug manufacturers to track and report information related to payments, gifts and other items of value to physicians and other healthcare providers. We complied with the Sunshine Act in the first quarter of 2015, as was required. 

In addition, several states now require prescription drug companies to report expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of drug products and to report gifts and payments to health care providers and entities in these states. Other states prohibit various other marketing-related activities. Still other states require the posting of information relating to clinical studies and their outcomes. Certain states, such as California and Connecticut, require manufacturers to implement compliance programs and/or marketing codes. Other states, such as Massachusetts and Vermont, impose restrictions on manufacturer marketing practices and require tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation, and other remuneration to healthcare professionals and entities. Several additional states are considering similar proposals. Compliance with these laws is difficult and time consuming, and companies that do not comply with these state laws face civil penalties. 

If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the health regulatory laws described above or any other laws that apply to us, we may be subject to significant penalties, including imprisonment, criminal fines, civil monetary penalties, administrative penalties, disgorgement, and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs, contractual damages, injunctions, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, reputational harm, administrative burdens, diminished profits and future earnings, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations. 

Foreign Regulation 

In addition to regulations in the United States, we will be subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of our products. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials and approval of foreign countries or economic areas, such as the European Union, before we may market products in those countries or areas. The approval process and requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from place to place, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. 

Other Laws and Regulatory Processes 

We are subject to a variety of financial disclosure and securities trading regulations as a public company in the United States, including laws relating to the oversight activities of the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;), and NASDAQ rules under which the Company&#8217;s stock is listed. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (&#8220;FASB&#8221;), the SEC, and other bodies that have jurisdiction over the form and content of our accounts, our financial statements and other public disclosure are constantly discussing and interpreting proposals and existing pronouncements designed to ensure that companies best display relevant and transparent information relating to their respective businesses. 

Our present and future business has been and will continue to be subject to various other laws and regulations. Various laws, regulations and recommendations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory practices, the experimental use of animals, and the purchase, storage, movement, import and export and use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances used in connection with our research work are or may be applicable to our activities. Certain agreements entered into by us involving exclusive license rights or acquisitions may be subject to national antitrust regulatory control, the effect of which cannot be predicted. The extent of government regulation which might result from future legislation or administrative action, cannot accurately be predicted. 

Available Information 

Our website address is www.retrophin.com . We post links on our website to the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All such filings are available through our website free of charge. Our filings may also be read and copied at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov &#32;that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

