 ITEM 1. BUSINESS

HISTORICAL DEVELOPMENT

Innovative Product Opportunities Inc. was incorporated on April 3, 2009 in the State of Delaware. 

OUR BUSINESS

From inception (April 3, 2009) until June 30, 2014 our business was a product development firm creating products designed, prototyped and produced in numerous industries including consumer and household goods, office products, furniture, and toys. 

We have started the implementation of our business plan and along with developing products are working in the entertainment/magazine industry through our licensor Cigar and Spirits. 

On March 1, 2012 the company entered into a license agreement with Szar International, Inc. (dba Cigar &#38; Spirits Magazine) (&#147;Cigar &#38; Spirits&#148;) and moved offices to our new California address with Cigar and Spirits. The agreement grants Innovative the right to market the products of Cigar &#38; Spirits including but not limited to the sales, promotion, and advertising vehicles of the Magazine. 

Since March 1, 2012, the Company has not earned revenues from rights acquired under this license agreement. On July 7, 2013, the Company received notice from Cigar &#38; Spirits that the license agreement would be cancelled effective August 1, 2013.

Since July 1, 2014, our business is a research and product development firm specializing in computer vision and gesture recognition technologies targeted at the staging and lighting industry. The operations of the business are carried on by a 100% owned subsidiary, I8 Interactive Corporation, a company incorporated under the laws of Canada.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

We have not spent any funds on research and development activities since our inception on April 3, 2009.

EMPLOYEES

As of March 24, 2016, we had four employees. Two employees are full time and two employees are part-time. We believe that our relations with our employees is good.

CUSTOMERS

We intend to market our services via trade and industry publications. Many products developed are new and innovative that requires public recognition to realize potential. Where possible we plan to merge our efforts for both design and publishing to maximize our opportunities.

COMPETITION

We compete with other software developers and systems integrators who offer one or more services competitive with the service we intend to sell. The product development and gesture recognition &#38; motion sensing technology industries are competitive, characterized by the frequent introduction of new products and includes numerous domestic and foreign competitors, some of which are substantially larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. We compete principally on the basis of offering quality products. Our competition includes:

&#183;

GestureTek 

&#183;

LM3LABS Corporation

&#183;

CAST Group of Companies (Blacktrax)

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

We have worked on interactive displays, and staging &#38; lighting products to date. We continue to investigate new product potentials in Internet of Things (IoT) and business opportunities.

MANUFACTURING AND PRODUCT SOURCING

Most supplies used in the manufacturing process are readily available from any number of local and international suppliers, at competitive prices. Delivery of product will vary depending on source and quantity required.

