 Item 1. Business 

Our Mission 

2U enables great colleges and universities to bring their degree programs online, allowing them to transform the way higher education is delivered. We believe that our Platform, a fusion of cloud-based software-as-a-service technology and technology-enabled services, allows our clients to reach students globally, enabling the education they provide to reach its highest potential so students can reach theirs. 

Company Overview 

We are a leading provider of cloud-based software-as-a-service, or SaaS, technology fused with technology-enabled services, which we refer to as our Platform. Our Platform enables leading nonprofit colleges and universities to deliver their high quality education to qualified students anywhere. Our SaaS technology consists of an innovative online learning environment, which we refer to as Online Campus, and our operations applications. This technology is fused with technology-enabled services, to complete our Platform. Our Platform allows our clients' programs to expand and operate at scale, providing the comprehensive infrastructure colleges and universities need to attract, enroll, educate, support and graduate their students. By leveraging our Platform, we believe our clients are able to expand their addressable markets while providing educational engagement, experiences and outcomes to their online students that match or exceed those of their on-campus offerings. 

Our clients use the Online Campus portion of our Platform to offer high quality educational content, instructor-led classes averaging 12 students per session in a live, intimate and engaging setting, and a rich social networking experience, all accessible through proprietary web-based and mobile applications. Online Campus challenges every student to learn from the front row and every faculty member to engage students in new and innovative ways. Our clients use the operations applications within our Platform to expand, enable and support their online operations, and integrate those operations with their existing university systems. These applications provide the content management, admissions application processing, customer relationship management and other functionality necessary to effectively operate our clients' programs. Our Platform also provides clients with real-time data and deep analytical insight related to student performance and engagement, student and faculty satisfaction and enrollment. We believe that the SaaS technology within our Platform is flexible, easy to use, highly scalable and characterized by a high level of availability and security. 

The technology-enabled services we provide within our Platform are designed to improve enrollment and retention of our clients' students as well as to provide those students with a complete, high quality educational experience. We have primary responsibility for identifying qualified students for our clients' programs, generating potential student interest in the programs and driving applications to the programs. We have developed sophisticated digital program marketing and student acquisition capabilities, and we work closely with our clients to help them create highly engaging multimedia instructional content for delivery through Online Campus. We also provide other services that support the complete lifecycle of a higher education program, including advising prospective students through the admissions application process, providing technical, success coaching and other support, facilitating accessibility to individuals with disabilities, facilitating in-program field placements, and obtaining state regulatory approvals. We provide the significant domain expertise and operating capacity our clients require to scale and operate successfully in the online environment. 

Our clients are leading nonprofit colleges and universities, 12 of which were ranked by U.S. News and World Report among the top 75 undergraduate institutions in its 2016 National University Rankings. Our clients primarily use our Platform to offer full graduate degree programs online. Through our uncompromising focus on quality and deep understanding of the higher education 

environment, we believe we have become not only a valued provider of the technology services our clients use to implement and manage their critical online education operations, but also a trusted steward of their brands. 

We believe that by delivering high quality degree programs online using our Platform, our clients can improve educational outcomes and career opportunities for a larger number of students and, by doing so, broaden the global reach of their brands while maintaining their academic rigor and admissions standards. By deploying our Platform, clients give their students, who receive the same degree or credit as their on-campus counterparts and generally pay equivalent tuition, the option of pursuing their educations without potentially incurring the burden of moving, leaving existing employment or giving up family and community support networks. This can substantially reduce the total cost of obtaining a degree and lower a student's total debt burden. It can also allow students for whom relocating is not an option to obtain a higher quality education than they might be able to access in their local communities. 

Full course equivalent enrollments in our clients' programs grew from 31,338 during the twelve months ended December 31, 2013 to 57,019 during the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, representing a compound annual growth rate of 35%. We measure full course equivalent enrollments in our clients' programs by determining, for each of the courses offered during a particular period, the number of students enrolled in that course multiplied by the percentage of the course completed during that period. Any individual student may be enrolled in more than one course during a period. From our inception through December 31, 2015, more than 17,500 unique individuals have enrolled as students in our clients' programs, and 84% of students who have entered these programs have either graduated or remain enrolled. By the time the last of these individuals graduate or leave our clients' programs, we estimate that they will have generated more than $1.0 billion in total program tuition and fees for our clients. 

Our client relationships are characterized by close, ongoing collaboration with faculty and administration, as well as a deep integration between our clients' academic missions and operations and our Platform. Our compensation from our clients consists primarily of a specified share of the tuition and fees paid to our clients by students in the programs we enable, which we believe aligns our interests with those of our clients. This revenue model, combined with long contractual terms, enables us to make the investment in technology, integration, content production, program marketing, student and faculty support and other services necessary to create large, successful programs. In addition, our proprietary program-selection algorithm enables us to deploy capital with greater confidence as we can systematically identify universities and programs that we believe have the highest probability of success with our Platform. 

Our client contracts generally have initial terms between 10 and 15 years in length, and, since our inception, all of the clients that have engaged us remain active. In addition, three of our clients who have launched programs and have students enrolled have elected to extend the initial terms of four program agreements with us in advance of those contracts renewing. With these extensions, the initial terms of those programs now extend to between 2027 and 2032. 

A significant percentage of our annual revenue is related to students returning to our clients' programs after their first semester. In the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, 58% of our revenue was related to students who had enrolled and completed their first semester prior to the start of the year. We believe this high percentage of revenue attributable to returning students contributes to the predictability and recurring nature of our business. 

We have achieved significant growth in a relatively short period of time. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, our revenue was $150.2 million, $110.2 million and $83.1 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, our net losses were $26.7 million, $29.0 million and $28.0 million, respectively, and our Adjusted EBITDA loss, a non-GAAP measure, 

was $6.6 million, $14.8 million and $21.2 million, respectively. For a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA loss to net loss, see "Selected Financial Data&#151;Adjusted EBITDA Loss." 

Adjusted EBITDA loss improvement over the periods presented is due partly to the maturing of programs within our entire program portfolio. Because we incur program marketing and sales expenses prior to generating the revenue related to those expenses, programs will typically show an adjusted EBITDA loss for several years prior to reaching adjusted EBITDA profitability. The following table presents a reconciliation, after allocation of all corporate costs, of full year 2015 net (loss) income margin to adjusted EBITDA (loss) income margin for our client programs, grouped by the length of time since program launch, as of December 31, 2015. For a list of programs and their respective launch dates, see "Business&#151;Clients." 

&#160; &#160; Less than 2 Years &#160; 2 - 3 Years &#160; Greater than 3 Years &#160; Total &#160; Net (loss) income &#160; &#160; (184 )% &#160; (12 )% &#160; 17 % &#160; (18 )% Interest expense (1) &#160; &#160; 0 % &#160; 0 % &#160; 0 % &#160; 0 % Interest income (1) &#160; &#160; 0 % &#160; 0 % &#160; 0 % &#160; 0 % Depreciation and amortization expense (1) &#160; &#160; 9 % &#160; 5 % &#160; 4 % &#160; 5 % Stock-based compensation expense (1) &#160; &#160; 17 % &#160; 10 % &#160; 6 % &#160; 8 % Adjusted EBITDA (loss) income &#160; &#160; (158 )% &#160; 4 % &#160; 27 % &#160; (4 )% 

(1) We consider interest expense, interest income, and the non-program specific portions of depreciation and amortization expense and stock-based compensation expense to be corporate expenses, and therefore we allocate those expenses to the above groupings based on our corporate allocation methodology. 

Market Opportunity 

The global higher education industry is undergoing a significant transition. Due primarily to macroeconomic conditions, public higher education institutions in the United States and other countries in recent years have faced decreased governmental financial support and increased volatility in graduate enrollment rates. At the same time, we believe the long-term growth prospects of the global higher education industry are strong, as governments, corporations and individuals around the world are increasingly recognizing the importance of education in a knowledge-based economy. 

In addition, technology, and online learning in particular, is reshaping how institutions deliver and individuals access education. Rising rates of internet penetration, the rapid proliferation of mobile devices and the growth in cloud-based services are broadening the accessibility of educational content and services as well as the potential reach of educational institutions. As a result, colleges and universities are rethinking their operational and business models, determining how to incorporate technology-enabled offerings into their long-term growth strategies and seeking cost-effective ways to expand their academic reach. 

Rising Global Demand for Postsecondary Education 

Higher education is a large and well-established market, both in the United States and worldwide. In the United States alone, total revenue for all degree-granting postsecondary institutions was over $555 billion for the 2012-2013 academic year, according to a May 2015 report by the U.S. National Center for Education Statistics. The decade between 2000 and 2010 saw a 37% increase in enrollment in postsecondary degree granting institutions in the United States, from 15.3 million to 21.0 million, according to the U.S. Department of Education, and that number is expected to rise to 24 million by 2022, a further increase of 14%. 

Rapid Growth in Online Education 

The market for online postsecondary education has grown more rapidly than the overall postsecondary market, driven by the increased acceptance of online programs among students, academic institutions and employers, and the greater flexibility and convenience of many online programs. 

We believe that in the past, many nonprofit institutions lacked confidence that online programs could offer sufficient quality to align with their brands, market reputations and academic standards. However, academic research, as well as our own experience, lead us to believe that academic outcomes in online environments are generally equivalent to or better than those in traditional face-to-face environments. We also believe nonprofit institutions have been hesitant to adopt new initiatives given that they lacked the capital, technological expertise and marketing capabilities necessary to build significant online operations. However, as technology has improved, online education has also improved and can now provide the quality educational experiences and student outcomes that leading nonprofit colleges and universities demand. In our clients' programs, for example, students experience high quality educational content (both synchronous and asynchronous), instructor-led classes averaging 12 students per session in a live, intimate and engaging setting, and a rich social networking experience. We believe this leads to an intimate and successful learning environment that rivals on campus program quality, and that nonprofit colleges and universities will increasingly consider online education as a means to cost-effectively extend their mission and reach. 

Challenges Faced by Providers of Postsecondary Education 

During this period of transition, providers of higher education are facing several fundamental challenges. First, many institutions recognize that they do not possess the human or technological resources necessary to implement a successful online learning strategy. Scaling degree programs online requires robust technology platforms and support services, significant expertise in digital marketing and recruiting, and the ability to create highly engaging multimedia content. These are resources that colleges and universities have traditionally not possessed. 

Second, many institutions face increasing financial challenges that prevent them from investing more heavily in developing technology-based solutions. In the United States, funding and endowment returns have declined in recent years. At the end of fiscal year 2012, the market value of the endowment funds of colleges and universities in the United States was $425 billion, reflecting an increase of only 1% that year. In addition, in 2012, total state support for higher education declined by 7% to $81.1 billion, and increased only slightly to $81.6 billion in 2013, according to a 2013 annual report from the State Higher Education Executive Officers Association. Given this environment, institutions of higher education are actively looking for ways to increase revenue, such as by raising tuition or increasing enrollment. 

Third, the shift in education towards digital media is altering the competitive landscape but the impact on traditional higher education institutions is yet unclear. The internet is allowing new forms of instructional content and courses to proliferate, including, without limitation, a variety of non-degree programs providing certificates or other credentials in technology, management and other specific skills. If in the future these non-degree alternatives become widely accepted by students and employers as a substitute for full degrees, traditional higher education institutions that fail to adapt may cede market share to nontraditional competitors. 

Our Opportunity 

We believe that an increasing number of institutions of higher education globally will implement online learning strategies to extend their reach and remain relevant to the needs of students. We believe we have a significant opportunity to help leading nonprofit colleges and universities implement 

and scale high quality online degree programs, while protecting and delivering on the promise of their brands thereby improving the reputation of online learning generally. We believe that the transition of the higher education market to cloud-based online delivery is just beginning, and that we are uniquely positioned to capture market share by delivering our compelling, value-producing Platform to these institutions. Our Platform provides nonprofit colleges and universities with the ability to capitalize on the disruptive forces of online education while extending the academic reach of their programs. By doing so, our clients are able not only to fulfill their missions but also to develop significant new sources of revenue through meaningful additional enrollments. 

Our Approach 

Our Platform provides integrated cloud-based SaaS technology and technology-enabled services that enables leading nonprofit colleges and universities to deliver high quality online degree programs. The SaaS portion of our Platform is comprised of Online Campus and our operations applications. Online Campus supports a wide range of university functions, such as enabling high quality educational content, instructor-led classes averaging 12 students per session in a live, intimate and engaging setting, and a rich social networking experience, all accessible through proprietary web-based and mobile applications. It also serves as a hub for student and faculty interaction, and incorporates a live, or synchronous, learning experience, with pre-produced, or asynchronous, educational content and dynamic social networking. 

Our clients use the operations applications within our Platform to expand, enable and support their online operations, and we integrate these applications with the various student information and other operating systems they use to manage functions within their institutions. These applications provide the content management, admissions application processing, customer relationship management, and other functionality necessary to effectively operate our clients' programs. Our Platform also provides our clients with real-time data and deep analytical insight related to student performance and engagement, student and faculty satisfaction, and enrollment. We believe that the SaaS technology within our Platform is flexible, easy to use, highly scalable and characterized by a high level of availability and security. 

In conjunction with our cloud-based SaaS technology, we provide technology-enabled services that support the complete lifecycle of a higher education program. These include assisting our clients in developing engaging premium quality academic content that we host and deliver on our Online Campus, attracting students, advising prospective students through the admissions application process, providing technical, success coaching and other support, facilitating accessibility to individuals with disabilities, facilitating in-program field placements, and obtaining state regulatory approvals. Our clients retain control of, and responsibility for, accreditation, developing admissions criteria and making admissions decisions, financial aid, selecting and hiring faculty, reviewing and approving the curriculum, and the direct delivery of academic services such as teaching, grading and assessment. 

Using our Platform, our clients can: 

&#149; Extend Institutional Mission and Reach. Our Platform enables clients to extend their brands and fulfill their missions by delivering high quality education programs online to students anywhere in the world while maintaining their academic rigor and admissions standards. Through our Platform, clients are able to reach students who otherwise may not have been able to enroll in their programs, thereby furthering their marketplace recognition and extending their institutional presence beyond geographic limitations. &#149; Increase Revenue. Our Platform enables clients to increase their overall enrollments significantly, thereby growing their tuition revenue. Students who enroll in our clients' programs through our Platform generally pay the same tuition as on-campus students. 7 

&#149; Increase Scalability. Our Platform allows clients to extend beyond their physical boundaries and capacity constraints to scale programs without the investment typically required to acquire, educate and service incremental on-campus students. Our Platform also allows our clients to identify and employ highly qualified teaching faculty without geographic constraint. &#149; Deliver a Differentiated, Engaging Learning Environment. The Online Campus portion of our Platform leverages advanced software technology to enable highly interactive learning experiences. Instructors are able to lead live, intimate discussions in seminar-style classes with an average of 12 students per session. Students are able to access Online Campus using proprietary web-based and mobile applications and engage with rich, multimedia-based educational content. We believe that this dynamic, interactive learning environment is more engaging and impactful than traditional educational environments or other approaches to online education, encouraging students to remain in our clients' programs through graduation. &#149; Utilize Ongoing Data and Analytical Insight. Our Platform enables clients to track the engagement and learning outcomes of their online students to a significantly greater degree than for their on-campus students. Through our analytics and reporting functions, clients can follow key data related to asynchronous student participation, class attendance, homework submission and overall engagement, and can provide timely intervention or support services as appropriate. This helps clients improve learning outcomes for their students. &#149; Increase Speed to Market. Our Platform enables institutions to implement and scale an online degree program faster than they could on their own. We work closely with our clients' faculty to develop engaging asynchronous multimedia course content, and apply our sophisticated digital marketing expertise to attract potential students for our clients' programs. Our clients do not need to spend time installing servers, networking equipment or other infrastructure to ensure a scalable, reliable program offering. Our Strengths 

We believe the following to be our key strengths: 

&#149; Robust, Differentiated Software and Services Platform. We believe our Platform, comprised of robust cloud-based SaaS technology fused with technology-enabled services, is highly differentiated in the marketplace. The cloud-based SaaS technology within our Platform offers extensive features, high configurability, an intuitive user interface and the ability to support synchronous and asynchronous learning at scale. Our technology-enabled services are tightly integrated with our SaaS technology and together they provide a broad set of capabilities that would otherwise require the purchase of multiple, disparate point solutions, and the employment of significant human resources and expertise. &#149; Proven Track Record Delivering Solutions for Leading Higher Education Institutions. We believe our track record of successfully implementing our Platform for leading nonprofit colleges and universities, together with the trust we have built with clients, create a significant competitive advantage. Additionally, we regularly conduct Net Promoter Score&#174; surveys with the faculty and students in each of our client programs. Net Promoter Score is a commonly used measure of customer loyalty and satisfaction. We believe that the favorable scores typically received from both groups demonstrate that we deliver our Platform in an effective and user-friendly manner. &#149; Proprietary, Data-Driven Approach to Growth. Through our experience launching and operating programs with leading nonprofit colleges and universities, we have developed a proprietary program-selection algorithm to drive the process for identifying new programs and clients. Our algorithm draws on a wide variety of data sets including the operating history of our existing programs, and is based on key market variables, including the existing market size of a degree, 8 

potential student demographics and client characteristics. We believe our approach to identifying potential growth opportunities enables us to systematically identify degrees at colleges and universities that we believe have the highest probability of success. Not only does it enable us to deploy capital with greater confidence, it also provides our clients with greater assurance of, and visibility into, program success. 

&#149; Dedicated Focus on Quality. We prioritize quality by employing a "white glove" service model. We are committed to delivering the technology and services required to ensure that every student and faculty member is fully supported throughout the life of each program. This model is designed to enable our clients to deliver academic programs that align with their brands and produce positive student outcomes, not only in educational achievement but also in terms of graduation rates and other key measures of success. It is also designed to support student satisfaction with, and retention in, our clients' programs. Through December 31, 2015, 84% of students who have ever entered our clients' programs have either graduated or remain enrolled. &#149; Attractive Financial Model with Significant Predictability and Visibility. We believe our financial model delivers significant operating leverage and visibility. Given the long-term nature of our contracts, we are able to benefit from increasing enrollments in clients' programs as those programs mature, leading to both revenue growth and expanding operating margins. In addition, we believe the significant portion of our revenue that is typically attributable to returning students contributes to the predictability and recurring nature of our business. Our Growth Strategy 

We intend to continue our industry leadership as a provider of cloud-based SaaS technology and technology-enabled services that enable leading nonprofit colleges and universities to deliver education online. Our approach to growth is disciplined and focused on long-term success. The principal elements of our strategy are to: 

&#149; Grow Our Client Base. We intend to expand beyond our existing client base through two focused approaches: &#149; Add Programs in New Academic Disciplines. We believe there is a substantial opportunity for us to increase the size of our client base by adding graduate programs in new academic disciplines within our core market of selective colleges and universities. &#149; Expand Within Existing Academic Disciplines. We are also actively targeting new graduate-level clients in academic disciplines where we have existing programs. We believe this approach will enable us to leverage our program marketing investments across multiple client programs within specific academic disciplines, expanding the number of students who can access high quality educations and significantly decreasing student acquisition costs within those disciplines. &#149; Increase Enrollment and Add Programs and Program Offerings with Existing Clients. We intend to continue to increase student enrollments within the existing programs we enable for our clients. We will seek to accomplish this by acquiring an increasing number of students for our clients' existing degree programs and by adding additional offerings within a program, as we have done for programs at clients including the University of Southern California, Georgetown University and Syracuse University. We have also been able to expand our relationships with clients by adding degree programs at the same university, as we have at the University of Southern California, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Syracuse University and The George Washington University, among others. 9 

&#149; Grow International, Doctoral and Undergraduate Presence. We believe that there is significant graduate market demand for our Platform as colleges and universities worldwide seek to extend their brands by accessing the growing global market for higher education. Our existing client programs serve students in over 75 countries. In addition, we believe there is a meaningful opportunity to expand the high quality online education experiences we provide to doctoral students. In the longer-term, we also believe that our Platform could be used to offer additional high quality online education experiences to undergraduate students. &#149; Continue to Innovate and Extend our Technological Leadership. Our ability to deliver innovative technology for our clients has been central to our growth and success. We intend to increase the functionality of the cloud-based SaaS portion of our Platform and continue our investment in the development of new applications that extend our technological leadership. Our Platform 

Our Platform consists of our cloud-based SaaS technology fused with technology-enabled services. 

Proprietary, Cloud-Based SaaS Technology 

Online Campus 

Our innovative online learning environment, Online Campus, enables our clients to offer high quality educational content together with instructor-led classes in a live, intimate and engaging setting, averaging 12 students per session, all accessible through proprietary web-based and mobile applications. This virtual classroom experience is enhanced by extensive social networking capabilities that enable ongoing interaction and collaboration. Online Campus allows our clients to provide a personalized learning environment for faculty and students as well as a robust online educational community. 

Online Campus powers the following: 

&#149; Virtual, Live Classes and Groups. Online Campus enables a variety of live, small-group class sessions that are accessed online. Class sessions include a video feed of the instructor and each student, and each student has a "front row" seat in the virtual classroom. Through Online Campus, instructors can simultaneously lead group discussions, customize the virtual classroom to their individual styles and display a variety of documents, images, charts, notes and videos. Through December 31, 2015, Online Campus has hosted approximately 225,000 live class sessions. Online Campus also enhances collaboration by allowing students to interact during class sessions using face-to-face online interaction, establish breakout groups for student discussion and group work and share projects onscreen for group feedback. A recording of every live class is stored on Online Campus and made available to faculty and students for future reference. Additionally, Online Campus is available for students to collaborate in planned or ad hoc study or work groups, regardless of day or time. &#149; Delivery of High Quality, Engaging Content. Through Online Campus, we and our clients collaboratively create, publish and deliver video and other asynchronous content, interactive course lectures, individual and group assignments and assessments. We have developed technology solutions to augment our content delivery capabilities, including our Bi-Directional Learning Tool, a technology we initially created to facilitate the Socratic method of teaching law. This technology enhances interaction between a faculty member and students, both individually and as a group, by blending asynchronous content and real-time student responses in the online environment. &#149; Dynamic Social Networking. Online Campus provides an intuitive social interface that connects students to an extended network of faculty, other students, researchers and administrators who are a part of their university community. We provide users with fully customizable social profiles, 10 

multimedia postings and dynamic communication and notification tools designed to supplement the live classroom experience and promote meaningful relationships. 

Operations Applications 

Our clients use the operations applications within our Platform to expand, enable and support their online operations, and integrate those operations with their existing university systems. These applications provide the content management, admissions application processing, customer relationship management, and other functionality necessary to effectively operate our clients' programs. In addition, these applications provide clients with real-time data and deep analytical insight related to student performance and engagement, student and faculty satisfaction, and enrollment. 

Our operations applications include the following: 

&#149; Content Management System. Our content management system enables us and our clients to author, review and deploy the asynchronous content for their online programs through Online Campus. The content management system includes a set of project management and collaboration tools that allow clients to seamlessly integrate the work of faculty with that of our course production and content development staff. &#149; Admissions Application Processing Portal. Our proprietary admissions application system, known as the Online Application and Recommendation System, or OARS, automates the online admissions application process for prospective students of our clients' programs. OARS is integrated with the primary marketing site for each program, directly funneling prospective students into each client's existing admissions application process and providing automated workflow for that process. Additionally, our system automates faculty review and student notification to improve the efficiency of these processes. &#149; Customer Relationship Management. We have developed customer relationship management deployments configured for each client's specific program characteristics. Each deployment serves as the data hub for scheduling, student acquisition, student application, faculty admissions review, enrollment and student support for each program. Our clients and our staff, as appropriate, can review, maintain and track this information to ensure that functions driven both by the client and by us are properly coordinated. Technology-Enabled Services 

We offer a comprehensive suite of technology-enabled services that support the complete lifecycle of a higher education program. These services include the following: 

&#149; Content Development. Leveraging our content management system, our content development staff works closely with our clients' faculty in a collaborative process to produce high quality, engaging online coursework and content. We produce scripted and casual videos in studio and on location, transform static content into interactive materials and ultimately assemble customized online course materials for delivery through our Online Campus. While our clients retain control of and responsibility for the curricula, we work closely with them to present the content in a highly engaging manner. &#149; Student Acquisition. Leveraging our customer relationship management deployments and other technology within our Platform, we provide dedicated program marketing services to drive applications for each client program. Our marketing teams develop creative assets, such as websites related to the fields of study of our clients' programs, and execute campaigns aimed at acquiring students cost-effectively. Our search engine optimization team supports our prospective student generation efforts across all of our clients' programs. Our campaigns are focused on finding the right prospective student at the right time in his or her search. 11 

&#149; Dedicated "White Glove" Service. High quality student and faculty support is a central pillar of our bundled service offering. We are committed to delivering the technology and services required to ensure that every student and faculty member is fully supported throughout the life of each program. Some of the key services we provide include: &#149; Admissions Application Advising: Leveraging our customer relationship management deployments and other technology within our Platform, our program-dedicated teams work with prospective students as they consider and apply to a client program. Once a student has submitted a completed admissions application package through the OARS portal, it is routed to and reviewed by the university admissions office, which renders the final admission decision. &#149; Student and Faculty Support: We augment each student's academic experience by assigning a dedicated advisor to provide ongoing individualized non-academic support. We also provide a dedicated support team that supports and trains university administration and faculty on how to use Online Campus and other components of our Platform to facilitate outstanding live instruction. &#149; Accessibility: For students with disabilities, we are able to facilitate accessibility across our Platform. These include providing screen-reading technology, captioning, subtitling and voice-over descriptions for asynchronous content, and sign language interpretation and real time captioning for live classes. &#149; In-Program Student Field Placements: Our field placement team is dedicated to securing in-program field placement opportunities for students enrolled in our clients' programs. Leveraging a geo-location database within our Platform, we work closely with faculty to identify and approve sites that meet curriculum requirements. Through December 31, 2015, our placement team has facilitated more than 24,000 individual in-program field placements in approximately 20,000 organizations around the world. &#149; State Authorization Services . Each online program a client offers using our Platform must comply with state authorization requirements in each state where the students enrolled in the program reside. We work with most of our clients to identify and satisfy state authorization requirements. Technology 

The cloud-based SaaS technology within our Platform is designed to deliver an exceptional end-user experience in a secure environment. To increase the speed at which we develop and enhance our solutions, we use open-source technology and custom development of our own instructional design tools and learning components. 

Our technology stack resides completely in the cloud, with a high level of security and horizontal scalability. We work with Amazon Web Services, our cloud hosting provider, to ensure high levels of redundancy and general preparedness. We have the ability to manage hundreds of server instances in Amazon Web Services and elsewhere through our automated deployment technologies. 

Our application programming interface, or API, is at the core of all of the SaaS technology within our Platform providing a standardized way to provision, manage, engage and deliver content to students, faculty and administrators. The API supports advanced analytics that allow us to search and analyze student usage data to evaluate course content, inform continuous technology development and improve user experiences. The API manages authentication and access for our entire technology stack and is designed to manage and interface with new technologies as they are introduced. 

Our development process follows best practices in web security, including formal design reviews by operations security consultants, threat modeling and risk assessments. All deployed software undergoes recurring penetration testing performed by certified industry experts. Our security risk assessment reviews begin during the design phase and continue through ongoing operations. 

All of the applications and application components within our SaaS technology are designed from the ground up to produce significant, readable and interpretable data to centralized systems in the form of monitors and logs that allow us to proactively identify and mitigate potential capacity, performance and security issues. We design our SaaS technology to industry security standards as well as requirements set out in current applicable regulations and standards. 

Program Marketing and Sales 

We dedicate the bulk of our program marketing and sales efforts to acquiring students for our clients' programs, and have developed highly sophisticated internet-based program marketing and student acquisition capabilities. Our model is not dependent on launching a large number of new programs per year, either with new or existing clients. Accordingly, we do not maintain a sales force targeted at new client or program acquisition. Rather, our new clients and programs are largely generated through a direct approach by our senior management to selected colleges and universities. We use a proprietary program selection algorithm to develop our pipeline of target clients. This data-centric model uses internally generated, publicly available and purchased data on market size, selectivity, student demographics, competition and other factors to identify combinations of colleges and universities and programs we believe will have the best prospects of long-term success. 

Clients 

The following table sets forth the programs we currently enable for our clients and their respective program launch dates: 

University/School 

&#160; Program Name &#160; Program Launch Date University of Southern California&#151;Rossier School of Education &#160; USC Rossier Online &#160; April 2009 University of Southern California&#151;School of Social Work &#160; MSW@USC &#160; October 2010 Georgetown University&#151;School of Nursing and Health Studies &#160; Nursing@Georgetown &#160; March 2011 University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill&#151;Kenan-Flagler Business School &#160; MBA@UNC &#160; July 2011 Washington University in St. Louis&#151;School of Law &#160; @WashULaw &#160; January 2013 University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill&#151;School of Government &#160; MPA@UNC &#160; January 2013 American University&#151;School of International Service &#160; International Relations Online &#160; May 2013 The George Washington University&#151;Milken Institute School of Public Health &#160; MPH@GW &#160; June 2013 Simmons College&#151;School of Nursing and Health Sciences &#160; Nursing@Simmons (1) &#160; October 2013 University of California, Berkeley&#151;School of Information &#160; DataScience@Berkeley &#160; January 2014 The George Washington University&#151;Milken Institute School of Public Health &#160; MHA@GW &#160; April 2014 Simmons College&#151;School of Social Work &#160; SocialWork@Simmons &#160; July 2014 Syracuse University&#151;Martin J. Whitman School of Management &#160; MBA@Syracuse &#160; January 2015 Southern Methodist University&#151;Interdisciplinary curriculum &#160; DataScience@SMU &#160; January 2015 Northwestern University&#151;The Family Institute &#160; Counseling@Northwestern &#160; March 2015 Syracuse University&#151;S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications &#160; Communications@Syracuse &#160; July 2015 American University&#151;Kogod School of Business &#160; MBA@American &#160; October 2015 

(1) Includes RN to BSN and RN to MSN, which launched in 2014. 

In addition, the following table sets forth the programs we have announced and expect to launch in the future: 

University/School 

&#160; Program Name Yale University&#151;School of Medicine &#160; Yale PA Online Simmons College&#151;Interdisciplinary curriculum &#160; Simmons Enterprise Program New York University&#151;Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and Human Development &#160; Speech Pathology Program New York University&#151;Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and Human Development &#160; School Counseling Program New York University&#151;Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and Human Development &#160; Occupational Therapy Program University of Southern California&#151;School of Social Work, Department of Nursing &#160; Nursing@USC New York University&#151;Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and Human Development &#160; Counseling for Mental Health The George Washington University&#151;Milken Institute School of Public Health &#160; HealthInformatics@GW Syracuse University&#151;School of Information Studies &#160; iSchool@Syracuse Syracuse University&#151;College of Engineering and Computer Science &#160; Engineering@Syracuse Syracuse University &#160; DataScience@Syracuse 

Our long-term client contracts do not include termination rights for convenience. Most contracts impose liquidated damages for a client's non-renewal, unless the client otherwise terminates due to our uncured breach. Each of our clients owns all of the academic content that we help them develop, although we are generally not obligated to develop content that will be functional anywhere but within Online Campus. 

Our contracts also set forth the parties' respective rights to offer competitive programs. For example, some contracts permit us to offer competitive programs with other schools whose potential students are not academically qualified or otherwise interested in the program we offer with our client. Other contracts prohibit us from offering competitive programs with a specific list of schools, whether a certain number as listed on U.S. News &#38; World Report's "best" schools list or a specifically enumerated list of schools negotiated with our client. In addition, any limitation on our ability to offer competitive programs becomes inapplicable if a client either refuses to scale the program to accommodate all students qualifying for admission into the program, or raises the program admissions standards above those at the time of contract execution. In addition, our contracts generally prohibit our clients from offering any online competitive program. Most of our more recent contracts either do not restrict our ability to offer competitive programs or provide for only limited restrictions. 

Our two longest running programs, launched in 2009 and 2010, are with the University of Southern California, or USC. For the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, 43% and 55%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from these two programs. We expect USC will continue to account for a large portion of our revenue until our other client programs become more mature and achieve significantly higher enrollment levels. 

We have contracts with the USC Rossier School of Education, or Rossier, to enable a Master of Arts in Teaching program, or MAT program, and with the USC School of Social Work to enable both a Master of Social Work program and a Master of Nursing program. Under our contracts with each of Rossier and the School of Social Work, we are entitled to a specified percentage of the net program proceeds. With Rossier, we are eligible for an increased percentage of net program proceeds if the net program proceeds exceed a specified level. Under our amended contract with the School of Social Work, the initial term expires on June 30, 2030. As part of this amendment, we agreed to provide fixed and contingent cash payments over time and a reduction in our revenue share percentage to be phased in over time. In exchange of the foregoing, the school agreed to significantly reduce the exclusivity obligations contained in the original contract. 

Both contracts provide for automatic renewal for successive three-year terms unless either party gives one-year notice of non-renewal, and liquidated damages if Rossier or the School of Social Work, as the case may be, fails to renew its respective contract after any term. 

Our programs with Simmons College accounted for 16% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015, and for less than 10% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014. Our programs with the University of North Carolina accounted for 12% and 13% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Our program with the Georgetown University School of Nursing and Health Studies accounted for less than 10% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015, and for 14% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014. 

Competition 

The overall market for technology solutions that enable higher education providers to deliver education online is highly fragmented, rapidly evolving and subject to changing technology, shifting needs of students and educators and frequent introductions of new methods of delivering education online. Several competitors provide solutions that compete with some of the capabilities of our Platform. Two such competitors, EmbanetCompass and Deltak, were acquired in 2012 by Pearson and John Wiley &#38; Sons, respectively, both of which are large education and publishing companies. There are also several private companies, including HotChalk and Everspring Partners, providing some or all of the services we provide, and these companies may choose to pursue some of the institutions we target. In addition, nonprofit colleges and universities may elect to continue using or develop their own online learning solutions in-house. 

We expect that the competitive landscape will expand as the market for online programs at nonprofit institutions matures. We believe the principal competitive factors in our market include the following: 

&#149; brand awareness and reputation; &#149; robustness of technology offering; &#149; breadth and depth of service offering; &#149; ability to invest in program start-up costs; &#149; expertise in program marketing, student acquisition and student retention; &#149; quality of user experience; &#149; ease of deployment and use of solutions; &#149; level of customization, configurability, security, scalability and reliability of solutions; and &#149; quality of client base and track record of performance. We believe we compete favorably on the basis of these factors. Our ability to remain competitive will depend, to a great extent, upon our ability to consistently deliver high quality technology solutions, meet client needs for content development, and acquire, support and retain students who achieve high quality outcomes. 

Intellectual Property 

We protect our intellectual property by relying on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, patent applications and contractual agreements. For example, we rely on trademark protection in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions to protect our rights to various marks, including 2U, NO BACK ROW, and other distinctive logos associated with our brand. We also have two patent 

applications pending in the United States, which are directed to computer-implemented processes that facilitate asynchronous student responses to teacher questions. 

We ensure that we own intellectual property created for us by signing agreements with employees, independent contractors, consultants, companies, and any other third party that creates intellectual property for us that assign any intellectual property rights to us. 

Portions of our Platform rely upon third-party licensed intellectual property. 

We have also established business procedures designed to maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information, including the use of confidentiality agreements with employees, independent contractors, consultants and companies with which we conduct business. 

We continue to evaluate developing and expanding our intellectual property rights in patents, trademarks and copyrights, as available through registration in the United States and internationally. 

For important additional information related to our intellectual property position, please review the information set forth in "Risk Factors&#151;Risks Related to Intellectual Property." 

Education Laws and Regulations 

The higher education industry is heavily regulated. Institutions of higher education that award degrees and certificates to signify the successful completion of an academic program are subject to regulation from three primary entities: the U.S. Department of Education, or DOE, accrediting agencies and state licensing authorities. Each of these entities promulgates and enforces its own laws, regulations and standards, which we refer to collectively as education laws. 

We contract with postsecondary institutions that are subject to education laws. In addition, we ourselves are required to comply with certain education laws as a result of our role as a service provider to institutions of higher education, either directly or indirectly through our contractual arrangements with clients. Our failure, or that of our clients, to comply with education laws could adversely impact our operations. As a result, we work closely with our clients to maintain compliance with education laws. 

Federal Laws and Regulations 

Under the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, or the HEA, institutions offering postsecondary education must comply with certain laws and related regulations promulgated by the DOE in order to participate in the Title IV federal student financial assistance programs. All of our clients participate in the Title IV programs. 

The HEA and the regulations promulgated thereunder are frequently revised, repealed or expanded. Congress historically has reauthorized and amended the HEA in regular intervals, approximately every five to seven years. The re-authorization process is currently under way. 

The re-authorization of the HEA could alter the regulatory landscape of the higher education industry, and thereby impact the manner in which we conduct business and serve our clients. In addition, the DOE is independently conducting an ongoing series of rulemakings intended to assure the integrity of the Title IV programs. The DOE also frequently issues formal and informal guidance instructing institutions of higher education and other covered entities how to comply with various federal laws and regulations. DOE guidance is subject to frequent change and may impact our business model. 

Although we are not considered an institution of higher education and we do not directly participate in Title IV programs, we are required to comply with certain regulations promulgated by the DOE as a result of our role as a service provider to institutions that do participate in Title IV programs. These include, for example, regulations governing student privacy under Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, or FERPA. The most material obligations stem from new rules and revisions to existing regulations promulgated by the DOE in 2010 as part of the so-called "program integrity" rules. 

While the program integrity rules were targeted at for-profit institutions of higher education, most apply equally to traditional colleges and universities such as our clients, and they apply in particular to institutions contracting with outside vendors to provide services, particularly in connection with distance education. These rules include principally the incentive compensation rule, the misrepresentation rule, the written arrangements rules and state authorization requirements. The more significant program integrity rules applicable to us or our clients are discussed in further detail below. 

Incentive Compensation Rule 

The HEA provides that any institution that participates in the Title IV federal student financial assistance programs must agree with the DOE that the institution will not provide any commission, bonus or other incentive payment to any person or entity engaged in any student recruiting or admission activities. 

As part of the program integrity rules, the DOE issued revised regulations regarding incentive compensation effective July 1, 2011. Under the revised regulations, each higher education institution agrees that it will not "provide any commission, bonus, or other incentive payment based in any part, directly or indirectly, upon success in securing enrollments or the award of financial aid, to any person or entity who is engaged in any student recruitment or admission activity, or in making decisions regarding the award of title IV, HEA program funds." Pursuant to this rule, we are prohibited from offering our covered employees, which are those involved with or responsible for recruiting or admissions activities, any bonus or incentive-based compensation based on the successful recruitment, admission or enrollment of students into a postsecondary institution. 

In addition, the revised rule initially raised a question as to whether our company itself, as an entity, is prohibited from entering into tuition revenue-sharing arrangements with clients. On March 17, 2011, the DOE issued official agency guidance, known as a "Dear Colleague Letter," or the DCL, providing guidance on this point. The DCL states that "[t]he Department generally views payment based on the amount of tuition generated as an indirect payment of incentive compensation based on success in recruitment and therefore a prohibited basis upon which to measure the value of the services provided" and that "[t]his is true regardless of the manner in which the entity compensates its employees." But the DCL also provides an important exception to the ban on tuition revenue-sharing arrangements between institutions and third parties. According to the DCL, the DOE does not consider payment based on the amount of tuition generated by an institution to violate the incentive compensation ban if the payment compensates an "unaffiliated third party" that provides a set of "bundled services" that includes recruitment services, such as those we provide. Example 2-B in the DCL is described as a "possible business model" developed "with the statutory mandate in mind." Example 2-B describes the following as a possible business model: 

&#160;"A third party that is not affiliated with the institution it serves and is not affiliated with any other institution that provides educational services, provides bundled services to the institution including marketing, enrollment application assistance, recruitment services, course support for online delivery of courses, the provision of technology, placement services for internships, and student career counseling. The institution may pay the entity an amount based on tuition generated for the institution by the entity's activities for all the bundled services that are offered and provided collectively, as long as the entity does not make prohibited compensation payments to its employees, and the institution does not pay the entity separately for student recruitment services provided by the entity." 

The DCL guidance indicates that that an arrangement that complies with Example 2-B will be deemed to be in compliance with the incentive compensation provisions of the HEA and the DOE's regulations. Our business model and contractual arrangements with client institutions closely follow Example 2-B in the DCL. In addition, we assure that none of our "covered employees" is paid any bonus or other incentive compensation in violation of the rule. 

Because the bundled services rule was promulgated in the form of agency guidance issued by the DOE in the form of a DCL and is not codified by statute or regulation, the rule could be altered or removed without prior notice, public comment period or other administrative procedural requirements that accompany formal agency rulemaking. Similarly, a court could invalidate the rule in an action involving our company or our clients, or in action that does not involve us at all. The revision, removal or invalidation of the bundled services rule by Congress, the DOE or a court could require us to change our business model. 

Misrepresentation Rule 

The HEA prohibits an institution that participates in the Title IV programs from engaging in any "substantial misrepresentation" regarding three broad subject areas: (1) the nature of the school's education programs, (2) the school's financial charges and (3) the employability of the school's graduates. In 2010, as part of the program integrity rules, the DOE revised its regulations in order to significantly expand the scope of the misrepresentation rule. Although some of the DOE's most expansive amendments to the misrepresentation rule were overturned by the courts in 2012, most of the 2010 amendments survived and remain in effect. 

Under the new rule, "misrepresentation" is defined as any false, erroneous or misleading statement, written, visual or oral. This includes even statements that "have the likelihood or tendency to deceive." Therefore, a statement need not be intentionally deceitful to qualify as a misrepresentation. "Substantial misrepresentation" is defined loosely as a misrepresentation on which the person to whom it was made could reasonably be expected to rely, or has reasonably relied, to that person's detriment. 

The new regulation also expands the scope of the rule to cover statements made by any representative of an institution, including agents, employees and subcontractors, and statements made directly or indirectly to any third party, including state agencies, government officials or the public, and not just to students or prospective students. 

Violations of the misrepresentation rule are subject to various sanctions by the DOE and violations may be used as a basis for legal action by third parties. Similar rules apply under state laws or are incorporated in institutional accreditation standards. As a result, we and our employees and subcontractors, as agents of our clients, must use a high degree of care to comply with the misrepresentation rule and are prohibited by contract from making any false, erroneous or misleading statements about our clients. To avoid an issue under the misrepresentation rule, we assure that all marketing materials are approved in advance by our clients before they are used by our employees and we carefully monitor our subcontractors. 

Accreditation Rules and Standards 

Accrediting agencies primarily examine the academic quality of the instructional programs of an educational institution, and a grant of accreditation is typically viewed as confirmation that an institution or an institution's programs meet generally accepted academic standards. Accrediting agencies also review the administrative and financial operations of the institutions they accredit to ensure that each institution has the resources to perform its educational mission. The DOE also relies on accrediting agencies to determine whether institutions' educational programs qualify the institutions to participate in Title IV programs. 

In addition to institutional accreditation, colleges and universities may require specialized programmatic accreditation for particular educational programs. Many states and professional associations require professional programs to be accredited, and require individuals to have graduated from accredited programs in order to sit for professional license exams. Programmatic accreditation, while not a sufficient basis for institutional Title IV Program certification by the DOE, assists graduates to practice or otherwise secure appropriate employment in their chosen field. Common fields of study subject to programmatic accreditation include teaching and nursing. 

Although we are not an accredited institution and are not required to maintain accreditation, accrediting agencies are responsible for reviewing an accredited institution's third-party contracts with service providers like us and may require an institution to obtain approval from or to notify the accreditor in connection with such arrangements. One purpose of the notification and approval requirements is to verify that the accredited institution remains responsible for providing academic instruction leading to a credential and provides oversight of other activities undertaken by third parties like us that are within the scope of its accreditation. We work closely with our clients to assure that the standards of their respective accreditors are met and are not adversely impacted by us. 

Accrediting agencies are also responsible for assuring that any "written arrangements" to outsource academic instruction meet accrediting standards and related regulations of the DOE. Our operations are generally not subject to such "written arrangements" rules because academic instruction is provided by our client institutions and not by us. 

State Laws and Regulations 

Each state has at least one licensing agency responsible for the oversight of educational institutions operating within its jurisdiction. Continued approval by such agencies is necessary for an institution to operate and grant degrees, diplomas or certificates in those states. Moreover, under the HEA, approval by such agencies is necessary to maintain eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. The level of regulatory oversight varies substantially from state to state. 

We and our clients may be subject to regulation in each state in which we or they own facilities, provide distance education or recruit students. State laws establish standards for, among other things, student instruction, qualifications of faculty, location and nature of facilities, recruiting practices and financial policies. The need to comply with applicable state laws and regulations may limit or delay our ability to market programs or offer new degree programs of our clients. 

State regulatory requirements for online education are inconsistent between states, change frequently and, in some instances, are outmoded. In addition, the interpretation of state authorization regulations is subject to substantial discretion by the state agency responsible for enforcing the regulations. Some states have enacted legislation or issued regulations that specifically address online educational programs, some of which may affect our operations. 

As part of the program integrity rules, the DOE required, among other things, that an institution offering distance learning or online programs secure the approval of those states which require such approval and provide evidence of such approval to the DOE upon request. This regulation dramatically increased the importance of state authorization because failure to obtain it could result in an obligation to return federal funds received by an institution. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia struck down the regulations requiring proof of state approval for online education programs in 2012; however, the DOE is considering issuing new regulations regarding state authorization. The DOE rulemaking to consider these and other issues is currently inactive, but it is the policy of DOE to require proof of all necessary state approvals when an institution seeks to renew its authorization to participate in the Title IV programs. 

We monitor state law developments closely and work closely with our clients to assist them with obtaining any required approvals. 

Other Laws 

Our activities on behalf of institutions are also subject to other federal and state laws. These regulations include, but are not limited to, consumer marketing and unfair trade practices laws and regulations, including those promulgated and enforced by the Federal Trade Commission, as well as federal and state data protection and privacy requirements. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 905 full-time employees and 99 part-time employees. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. 

Facilities 

We currently lease approximately 87,000 square feet of space for our corporate headquarters in Landover, Maryland pursuant to a lease that expires in July 2018. On December 23, 2015, we entered into a new lease for our Maryland headquarters. The 11 year, nine month office building lease is for approximately 250,000 rentable square feet by the end of the lease term in Lanham, Maryland, and the initial term is expected to commence on December 1, 2016. We also lease an aggregate of approximately 89,000 square feet of space in New York, California, Colorado, North Carolina, Virginia and Hong Kong. We are currently evaluating options for additional space in New York and Colorado as needed to accommodate our growth, and we believe that we will be able to obtain such space on acceptable, commercially reasonable terms. 

Legal Proceedings 

From time to time, we may become involved in legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business. We are not presently a party to any material legal proceedings, nor are we a party to any legal proceedings that, if determined adversely to us, would individually or taken together have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. 

