 Item 1. BUSINESS Organizational History and Subsidiaries 

United Bankshares, Inc. (United) is a West Virginia corporation registered as a bank holding company pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. United was incorporated on March 26, 1982, organized on September 9, 1982, and began conducting business on May 1, 1984 with the acquisition of three wholly-owned subsidiaries. Since its formation in 1982, United has acquired twenty-nine banking institutions including its recent acquisition of Virginia Commerce Bancorp, Inc. which consummated after the close of business on January 31, 2014. As of December 31, 2015, United has two banking subsidiaries (the Banking Subsidiaries) &#147;doing business&#148; under the name of United Bank, one operating under the laws of West Virginia referred to as United Bank (WV) and the other operating under the laws of Virginia referred to as United Bank (VA). United&#146;s Banking Subsidiaries offer a full range of commercial and retail banking services and products. United also owns nonbank subsidiaries which engage in other community banking services such as asset management, real property title insurance, financial planning, and brokerage services. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, United and its subsidiaries had approximately 1,701 full-time equivalent employees and officers. None of these employees are represented by a collective bargaining unit and management considers employee relations to be excellent. 

Web Site Address 

United&#146;s web site address is &#147;www.ubsi-inc.com&#148;. United makes available free of charge on its web site the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments thereto, as soon as reasonably practicable after United files such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The reference to United&#146;s web site does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained in the web site and should not be considered part of this document. These reports are also available at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

Business of United 

As a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, United&#146;s present business is community banking. As of December 31, 2015, United&#146;s consolidated assets approximated $12.6 billion and total shareholders&#146; equity approximated $1.7 billion. 

United is permitted to acquire other banks and bank holding companies, as well as thrift institutions. United is also permitted to engage in certain non-banking activities which are closely related to banking under the provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act and the Federal Reserve Board&#146;s Regulation Y. Management continues to consider such opportunities as they arise, and in this regard, management from time to time makes inquiries, proposals, or expressions of interest as to potential opportunities, although no agreements or understandings to acquire other banks or bank holding companies or nonbanking subsidiaries or to engage in other nonbanking activities, other than those identified herein, presently exist. See Note B&#151;Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of United&#146;s announced merger with Bank of Georgetown and its completed merger with Virginia Commerce Bancorp, Inc. 

&#160; 

Business of Banking Subsidiaries 

United, through its subsidiaries, engages primarily in community banking and offers most banking products and services permitted by law and regulation. Included among the banking services offered are the acceptance of deposits in checking, savings, time and money market accounts; the making and servicing of personal, commercial, floor plan and student loans; and the making of construction and real estate loans. Also offered are individual retirement accounts, safe deposit boxes, wire transfers and other standard banking products and services. As part of their lending function, the Banking Subsidiaries offer credit card services. 

United Bank (WV) and United Bank (VA) each maintain a trust department which acts as trustee under wills, trusts and pension and profit sharing plans, as executor and administrator of estates, and as guardian for estates of minors and incompetents, and in addition performs a variety of investment and security services. Trust services are available to customers of affiliate banks. United Bank (WV) provides services to its correspondent banks such as check clearing, safekeeping and the buying and selling of federal funds. 

United Brokerage Services, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of United Bank (WV), is a fully-disclosed broker/dealer and a registered Investment Advisor with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., the Securities and Exchange Commission, and a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. United Brokerage Services, Inc. offers a wide range of investment products as well as comprehensive financial planning and asset management services to the general public. 

United Bank (WV) and United Bank (VA) are members of a network of automated teller machines known as the New York Currency Exchange (NYCE) ATM network. The NYCE is an interbank network connecting the ATMs of various financial institutions in the United States and Canada. 

United through its Banking Subsidiaries offers an Internet banking service, Smart Touch Online Banking, which allows customers to perform various transactions using a computer or tablet from any location or from a mobile device such as a smart phone or other cellular device as long as they have access to the Internet, applicable software and a secure browser. Specifically, customers can check personal account balances, receive information about transactions within their accounts, make transfers between accounts, stop payment on a check, and reorder checks. Customers may also pay bills online and can make payments to virtually any business or individual. Customers can set up recurring fixed payments, one-time future payments or a one-time immediate payment. Customers can also set up their own merchants, view and modify that merchant list, view pending transactions and view their bill payment history with approximately three (3) months of history. 

United also offers an automated telephone banking system, Telebanc, which allows customers to access their personal account(s) or business account(s) information from a touch-tone telephone. 

Lending Activities 

United&#146;s loan portfolio, net of unearned income, increased $279.4 million or 3.07% in 2015. The loan portfolio is comprised of commercial, real estate and consumer loans including credit card and home equity loans. Commercial, financial and agricultural loans increased $72.3 million or 1.35% as commercial real estate loans increased $47.6 million or 1.26% and commercial loans (not secured by real estate) increased $24.8 million or 1.57%. In addition, consumer loans increased $62.0 million or 16.80% while construction and land development loans increased $139.8 million or 12.34%. Residential real estate loans were relatively flat. 

Commercial Loans 

The commercial loan portfolio consists of loans to corporate borrowers primarily in small to mid-size industrial and commercial companies, as well as automobile dealers, service, retail and wholesale merchants. Collateral securing these loans includes equipment, machinery, inventory, receivables, vehicles and commercial real estate. Commercial loans are considered to contain a higher level of risk than other loan types although care is taken to minimize these risks. Numerous risk factors impact this portfolio including industry specific risks such as economy, new technology, labor rates and cyclicality, as well as customer specific factors, such as cash flow, 

&#160; 

financial structure, operating controls and asset quality. United diversifies risk within this portfolio by closely monitoring industry concentrations and portfolios to ensure that it does not exceed established lending guidelines. Diversification is intended to limit the risk of loss from any single unexpected economic event or trend. Underwriting standards require a comprehensive credit analysis and independent evaluation of virtually all larger balance commercial loans by the loan committee prior to approval. 

Real Estate Loans 

Commercial real estate loans consist of commercial mortgages, which generally are secured by nonresidential and multi-family residential properties. Also included in this portfolio are loans that are secured by owner-occupied real estate, but made for purposes other than the construction or purchase of real estate. Commercial real estate loans are to many of the same customers and carry similar industry risks as the commercial loan portfolio. Real estate mortgage loans to consumers are secured primarily by a first lien deed of trust. These loans are traditional one-to-four family residential mortgages. The loans generally do not exceed an 80% loan to value ratio at the loan origination date and most are at a variable rate of interest. These loans are considered to be of normal risk. Also included in the category of real estate mortgage loans are home equity loans. 

As of December 31, 2015, approximately $391.9 million or 4.18% of United&#146;s loan portfolio were real estate loans that met the regulatory definition of a high loan-to-value loan. A high loan-to-value real estate loan is defined as any loan, line of credit, or combination of credits secured by liens on or interests in real estate that equals or exceeds a certain percentage established by United&#146;s primary regulator of the real estate&#146;s appraised value, unless the loan has other appropriate credit support. The certain percentage varies depending on the loan type and collateral. Appropriate credit support may include mortgage insurance, readily marketable collateral, or other acceptable collateral that reduces the loan-to-value ratio below the certain percentage. 

Consumer Loans 

Consumer loans are secured by automobiles, boats, recreational vehicles, and other personal property. Personal loans, student loans and unsecured credit card receivables are also included as consumer loans. United monitors the risk associated with these types of loans by monitoring such factors as portfolio growth, lending policies and economic conditions. Underwriting standards are continually evaluated and modified based upon these factors. 

Underwriting Standards 

United&#146;s loan underwriting guidelines and standards are updated periodically and are presented for approval by the respective Boards of Directors of each of its subsidiary banks. The purpose of the standards and guidelines is to grant loans on a sound and collectible basis; to invest available funds in a safe, profitable manner; to serve the legitimate credit needs of the communities of United&#146;s primary market area; and to ensure that all loan applicants receive fair and equal treatment in the lending process. It is the intent of the underwriting guidelines and standards to: minimize loan losses by carefully investigating the credit history of each applicant, verify the source of repayment and the ability of the applicant to repay, collateralize those loans in which collateral is deemed to be required, exercise care in the documentation of the application, review, approval, and origination process, and administer a comprehensive loan collection program. 

United&#146;s underwriting standards and practices are designed to originate both fixed and variable rate loan products in a manner which is consistent with the prudent banking practices applicable to these exposures. Typically, both fixed and variable rate loan underwriting practices incorporate conservative methodology, including the use of stress testing for commercial loans, and other product appropriate measures designed to provide an adequate margin of safety for the full collection of both principal and interest within contractual terms. Consumer real estate secured loans are underwritten to the initial rate, and to a higher assumed rate commensurate with normal market conditions. Therefore, it is the intent of United&#146;s underwriting standards to insure that adequate primary repayment capacity exists to address both future increases in interest rates, and fluctuations in the underlying cash flows available for repayment. Historically, and at December 31, 2015, United has not offered &#147;teaser rate&#148; loans, and had no loan portfolio products which were specifically designed for &#147;sub-prime&#148; borrowers. Management defines &#147;sub-prime&#148; borrowers as consumer borrowers with a credit score of less than 660. 

&#160; 

The above guidelines are adhered to and subject to the experience, background and personal judgment of the loan officer assigned to the loan application. A loan officer may grant, with justification, a loan with variances from the underwriting guidelines and standards. However, the loan officer may not exceed his or her respective lending authority without obtaining the prior, proper approval as outlined in United&#146;s loan policy from a superior, a regional supervisor or market president (dual approval per policy) or the Loan Committee, whichever is deemed appropriate for the nature of the variance. 

Loan Concentrations 

United has commercial loans, including real estate and owner-occupied, income-producing real estate and land development loans, of approximately $6.6 billion as of December 31, 2015. These loans are primarily secured by real estate located in West Virginia, southeastern Ohio, southwestern Pennsylvania, Virginia, Maryland and the District of Columbia. United categorizes these commercial loans by industry according to the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) to monitor the portfolio for possible concentrations in one or more industries. As of the most recent fiscal year-end, United has one such industry classification that exceeded 10% of total loans. As of December 31, 2015, approximately $3.6 billion or 38.8% of United&#146;s total loan portfolio were for the purpose of renting or leasing real estate. The loans were originated by United&#146;s subsidiary banks using underwriting standards as set forth by management. United&#146;s loan administration policies are focused on the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, including commercial real estate loans, in terms of loan approval and credit quality. It is the opinion of management that these loans do not pose any unusual risks and that adequate consideration has been given to the above loans in establishing the allowance for loan losses. 

United does not have a loan classification concentration in the mining, quarrying and oil and gas extraction industry. As of December 31, 2015, approximately $75.5 million or 0.8% of United&#146;s total loan portfolio were for the purpose of mining, quarrying and oil and gas extraction. 

Secondary Markets 

United generally originates loans within the primary market area of its banking subsidiaries. United may from time to time make loans to borrowers and/or on properties outside of its primary market area as an accommodation to its existing customers. As of December 31, 2015, the balance of mortgage loans being serviced by United for others was insignificant. 

United engages in the origination and acquisition of residential real estate loans for resale. These loans are for single-family, owner-occupied residences with either adjustable or fixed rate terms, with a variety of maturities tailored to effectively serve its markets. Mortgage loan originations are generally intended to be sold in the secondary market on a best efforts basis. 

During 2015, United originated $145.8 million of real estate loans for sale in the secondary market and sold $143.8 million of loans designated as held for sale in the secondary market. Net gains on the sales of these loans during 2015 were $2.5 million. 

The principal sources of revenue from United&#146;s mortgage banking business are: (i) loan origination fees; (ii) gains or losses from the sale of loans; and (iii) interest earned on mortgage loans during the period that they are held by United pending sale, if any. 

&#160; 

Investment Activities 

United&#146;s investment policy stresses the management of the investment securities portfolio, which includes both securities held to maturity and securities available for sale, to maximize return over the long-term in a manner that is consistent with good banking practices and relative safety of principal. United currently does not engage in trading account activity. The Asset/Liability Management Committee of United is responsible for the coordination and evaluation of the investment portfolio. 

Sources of funds for investment activities include &#147;core deposits&#148;. Core deposits include certain demand deposits, statement and special savings and NOW accounts. These deposits are relatively stable and they are the lowest cost source of funds available to United. Short-term borrowings have also been a significant source of funds. These include federal funds purchased, securities sold under agreements to repurchase and FHLB borrowings. Repurchase agreements represent funds that are generally obtained as the result of a competitive bidding process. 

United&#146;s investment portfolio is comprised of a significant amount of U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Agencies and Corporations as well as mortgage-backed securities. Obligations of States and Political Subdivisions are comprised of primarily &#147;investment grade&#148; rated municipal securities. Interest and dividends on securities for the years of 2015, 2014, and 2013 were $34.3 million, $33.9 million, and $19.5 million, respectively. For the years of 2015, 2014 and 2013, United realized net gains on sales of securities of $202 thousand, $3.4 million and $1.5 million, respectively. In the year 2015, United recognized other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) charges of $47 thousand, consisting of OTTI on an equity security and a pooled trust preferred collateralized debt obligation (TRUP CDO). In the year 2014, United recognized other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) charges of $6.5 million, all consisting of OTTI on pooled trust preferred collateralized debt obligations (TRUP CDOs). In the year 2013, United recognized other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) charges of $7.3 million consisting primarily of $7.2 million on pooled trust preferred collateralized debt obligations (TRUP CDOs) and $137 thousand on equity securities. 

Competition 

United faces a high degree of competition in all of the markets it serves. United considers all of West Virginia to be included in its market area. This area includes the five largest West Virginia Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSA): the Parkersburg MSA, the Charleston MSA, the Huntington MSA, the Morgantown MSA and the Wheeling MSA. United serves the Ohio counties of Lawrence, Belmont, Jefferson and Washington and Fayette county in Pennsylvania primarily because of their close proximity to the Ohio and Pennsylvania borders and United banking offices located in those counties or in nearby West Virginia. United&#146;s Virginia markets include the Maryland, northern Virginia and Washington, D.C. MSA, the Winchester MSA, the Harrisonburg MSA, and the Charlottesville MSA. United considers all of the above locations to be the primary market area for the business of its banking subsidiaries. 

With prior regulatory approval, West Virginia and Virginia banks are permitted unlimited branch banking throughout each state. In addition, interstate acquisitions of and by West Virginia and Virginia banks and bank holding companies are permissible on a reciprocal basis, as well as reciprocal interstate acquisitions by thrift institutions. These conditions serve to intensify competition within United&#146;s market. 

As of December 31, 2015, there were 65 bank holding companies operating in the State of West Virginia registered with the Federal Reserve System and the West Virginia Board of Banking and Financial Institutions and 102 bank holding companies operating in the Commonwealth of Virginia registered with the Federal Reserve System and the Virginia Corporation Commission. These holding companies are headquartered in various states and control banks throughout West Virginia and Virginia, which compete for business as well as for the acquisition of additional banks. 

Economic Characteristics of Primary Market Area 

As of December 2015, West Virginia&#146;s seasonally adjusted unemployment rate was 6.3% according to information from West Virginia&#146;s Bureau of Employment Programs. The national unemployment rate was 5.0%. The number of unemployed state residents fell 1,800 to 49,300 for the month of December as compared to the month of November. Total unemployment was up 3,600 over the year of 2014. The state unemployment rate of 

&#160; 

6.3% for December 2015 was a decrease from a rate of 6.5% for the month of November 2015 and up from the rate of 5.9% for the month of December 2014. Total nonfarm payroll employment increased 700 in December, with an increase of 2,300 in the goods-producing sector offset by a decrease of 1,600 in the service-providing sector. West Virginia&#146;s not seasonally adjusted unemployment rate was 5.9% in December 2015. West Virginia&#146;s economy has struggled over the past year, primarily driven by the state&#146;s energy sector, where losses in coal jobs have been coupled with a recent slowdown in the natural gas industry. According to the latest forecast from the West Virginia University College of Business and Economics, employment in West Virginia is estimated to increase 0.5% per year on average through 2020, compared to an expectation of 1.2% nationally. The state&#146;s seasonally adjusted unemployment rate is expected to remain at or above 6.5% through early-2016, but will fall over much of the outlook period, declining to the upper-5% range by 2019. Per capita personal income is expected to grow at an annual average rate of 1.8% over the next five years, below the national rate of 2.3%. West Virginia&#146;s population has declined over the past two years and is projected to lose around 23,000 residents over the next 20 years. While the state overall is expected to lose population in coming years, 18 counties are expected to add residents. Population gains will be heavily concentrated in North-Central West Virginia and the Eastern Panhandle. 

United&#146;s Virginia subsidiary banking offices are located in markets that historically have reflected low unemployment rate levels. According to information available from the Virginia Employment Commission, Virginia&#146;s seasonally adjusted unemployment rate did increase 0.1% for the month of December 2015 to 4.2% as compared to 4.1% for November of 2015. December&#146;s slight increase followed five consecutive months of decline. Over the year of 2015, the seasonally adjusted unemployment rate was down 0.6% from December 2014. Virginia&#146;s seasonally adjusted unemployment rate continues to be below the national rate of 5.0%. Seasonally adjusted nonfarm employment was up 6,800 jobs between November 2015 and December 2015 to 3,856,100. The December gain was the fourth consecutive monthly job gain. From November 2015 to December 2015, seasonally adjusted employment increased in six major industry divisions, decreased in four and remained unchanged in one. In Virginia&#146;s official forecast, economic growth in the state is projected to moderately accelerate in 2016 relative to 2015. The forecast is for Virginia to grow slower than the nation in terms of employment and personal income. Personal income growth is expected to be 3.7% in 2016 with increases to 3.8% in 2017 and 4.2% by 2018. Total nonagricultural employment is expected to increase 1.5% in 2016. Employment in the professional and business sector is forecast to increase by 2.7% in 2016. Construction employment is expected to grow by 3% in 2016. Employment in trade, transportation and utilities is expected to increase by 0.9% in 2016. Overall, employment is expected to increase 1.3% in 2017. 

Regulation and Supervision 

United, as a bank holding company, is subject to the restrictions of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and is registered pursuant to its provisions. As such, United is subject to the reporting requirements of and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board of Governors). 

The Bank Holding Company Act prohibits the acquisition by a bank holding company of direct or indirect ownership of more than five percent of the voting shares of any bank within the United States without prior approval of the Board of Governors. With certain exceptions, a bank holding company also is prohibited from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than five percent of the voting shares of any company which is not a bank, and from engaging directly or indirectly in business unrelated to the business of banking, or managing or controlling banks. 

The Board of Governors, in its Regulation Y, permits bank holding companies to engage in preapproved non-banking activities closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks. Approval of the Board of Governors is necessary to engage in certain other non-banking activities which are not preapproved or to make acquisitions of corporations engaging in these activities. In addition, on a case-by-case basis, the Board of Governors may approve other non-banking activities. 

As a bank holding company doing business in West Virginia, United is also subject to regulation and examination by the West Virginia Board of Banking and Financial Institutions (the West Virginia Banking Board) and must submit annual reports to the West Virginia Banking Board. Further, any acquisition application that United must submit to the Board of Governors must also be submitted to the West Virginia Banking Board for approval. 

&#160; 

The Board of Governors has broad authority to prohibit activities of bank holding companies and their non-banking subsidiaries that represent unsafe and unsound banking practices or which constitute violations of laws or regulations. The Board of Governors also can assess civil money penalties for certain activities conducted on a knowing and reckless basis, if those activities caused a substantial loss to a depository institution. The penalties can be as high as $1 million for each day the activity continues. 

United Bank (WV) and United Bank (VA), as state member banks, are subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the Federal Reserve System, and as such, are subject to applicable provisions of the Federal Reserve Act and regulations issued thereunder. United Bank (WV) is subject to West Virginia banking statutes and regulations, and is primarily regulated by the West Virginia Division of Financial Institutions. United Bank (VA) is subject to the Virginia banking statutes and regulations, and is primarily regulated by the Virginia Bureau of Financial Institution. As members of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (&#147;FDIC&#148;), United&#146;s Banking Subsidiaries&#146; deposits are insured as required by federal law. Bank regulatory authorities regularly examine revenues, loans, investments, management practices, and other aspects of United&#146;s Banking Subsidiaries. These examinations are conducted primarily to protect depositors and not shareholders. In addition to these regular examinations, United&#146;s Banking Subsidiaries must furnish to regulatory authorities quarterly reports containing full and accurate statements of its affairs. 

United is also under the jurisdiction of the SEC and certain state securities commissions in regard to the offering and sale of its securities. Generally, United must file under the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, to issue additional shares of its common stock. United is also registered under and is subject to the regulatory and disclosure requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as administered by the SEC. United is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the quotation symbol &#147;UBSI,&#148; and is subject to the rules of the NASDAQ for listed companies. 

SEC regulations require us to disclose certain types of business and financial data on a regular basis to the SEC and to our shareholders. We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports with the SEC. We prepare and file an annual report on Form 10-K with the SEC that contains detailed financial and operating information, as well as a management response to specific questions about the our operations. SEC regulations require that our annual reports to shareholders contain certified financial statements and other specific items such as management&#146;s discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations. We must also file quarterly reports with the SEC on Form 10-Q that contain detailed financial and operating information for the prior quarter and we must file current reports on Form 8-K to provide the pubic with information on recent material events. 

In addition to periodic reporting to the SEC, we are subject to proxy rules and tender offer rules issued by the SEC. Our officers, directors and principal shareholders (holding 10% or more of our stock) must also submit reports to the SEC regarding their holdings of our stock and any changes to such holdings, and they are subject to short-swing profit liability. 

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 

On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act), into law. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changes regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act includes, among other things, provisions creating a Financial Services Oversight Council to identify emerging systemic risks and improve interagency cooperation; centralizing the responsibility for consumer financial protection by creating a new agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which is responsible for implementing, examining and enforcing compliance with federal consumer financial laws; permanently raising the current standard maximum deposit insurance amount to $250,000; establishing strengthened capital standards for banks, and disallowing trust preferred securities as 

&#160; 

qualifying for Tier 1 capital (subject to certain grandfather provisions for existing trust preferred securities); establishing new minimum mortgage underwriting standards; granting the Federal Reserve Board the power to regulate debit card interchange fees; and implementing corporate governance changes. 

On December 10, 2013, the banking agencies issued a final rule implementing Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, commonly referred to as the &#147;Volcker Rule&#148;. The Federal Reserve issued an order on December 18, 2014 extending the period which banking entities have to divest disallowed securities under the Volker Rule to July 21, 2016. The Federal Reserve also announced its intention to grant an additional one year extension of the conformance period until July 21, 2017. On January 14, 2014, the banking agencies approved an interim final rule to permit banking entities to retain interests in certain collateralized debt obligations backed primarily by trust preferred securities (Trup Cdos) from the prohibitions under the Volcker Rule. During the third quarter of 2014 United sold four Trup Cdos for a net gain of $1.3 million in response to the Volcker Rule. Under the Volcker Rule, these four securities were identified by United as covered funds and were required to be divested of before July 21, 2017. United believes the remaining Trup Cdo portfolio is excluded from the scope of the Volcker Rule. 

Deposit Insurance 

The deposits of United&#146;s Banking Subsidiaries are insured by the FDIC to the extent provided by law. Accordingly, these Banking Subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the FDIC. The Banking Subsidiaries are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) of the FDIC. The FDIC utilizes a risk-based assessment system that imposes insurance premiums based upon a risk matrix that takes into account a bank&#146;s capital level and supervisory rating (CAMELS rating) and certain financial measures to assess an institution&#146;s ability to withstand asset-related stress and funding-related stress. The risk matrix utilizes four risk categories which are distinguished by capital levels and supervisory ratings. 

In October 2010, the FDIC adopted a new DIF restoration plan to ensure that the fund reserve ratio reaches 1.35% by September 30, 2020, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Under the new restoration plan, the FDIC will update its loss and income projections at least semi-annually for the fund and, if needed, will increase or decrease assessment rates, following notice-and-comment rulemaking if required. 

In April 2011, the FDIC implemented rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act to reform the deposit insurance assessment system. The final rule redefined the assessment base used for calculating deposit insurance assessments. Specifically, the rule bases assessments on an institution&#146;s total assets less tangible capital, as opposed to total deposits. Since the new base is larger than the prior base, the FDIC also proposed lowering assessment rates so that the rules would not significantly alter the total amount of revenue collected from the industry. The new assessment scale ranges from 2.5 basis points for the least risky institutions to 45 basis points for the riskiest. 

United&#146;s FDIC insurance expense totaled $8.4 million, $7.6 million and $6.2 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Capital Requirements 

As a bank holding company, United is subject to consolidated regulatory capital requirements administered by the Federal Reserve Board. United&#146;s Banking Subsidiaries are also subject to the capital requirements administered by the Federal Reserve Board. On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve, United&#146;s and its banking subsidiaries&#146; primary federal regulator, published final rules (the Basel III Capital Rules) establishing a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking organizations. The rules implement the Basel Committee&#146;s December 2010 framework known as &#147;Basel III&#148; for strengthening international capital standards as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Basel III Capital Rules substantially revise the risk-based capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies and depository institutions, including United and its banking subsidiaries, compared to the current U.S. risk-based capital rules. The Basel III Capital Rules define the components of capital and address other issues affecting the numerator in banking institutions&#146; regulatory capital ratios. The Basel III Capital Rules also address risk weights and other issues affecting the denominator in banking institutions&#146; regulatory capital ratios and replace the existing risk-weighting approach, which was derived from 

&#160; 

Basel I capital accords of the Basel Committee, with a more risk-sensitive approach based, in part, on the standardized approach in the Basel Committee&#146;s 2004 &#147;Basel II&#148; capital accords. The Basel III Capital Rules also implement the requirements of Section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act to remove references to credit ratings from the federal banking agencies&#146; rules. The Basel III Capital Rules were effective for United and its banking subsidiaries on January 1, 2015 (subject to a phase-in period). 

The Basel III Capital Rules, among other things, (i) introduce a new capital measure called &#147;Common Equity Tier 1&#148; (CET1), (ii) specify that Tier 1 capital consist of CET1 and &#147;Additional Tier 1 capital&#148; instruments meeting specified requirements, (iii) define CET1 narrowly by requiring that most deductions/adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital and (iv) expand the scope of the deductions/adjustments from capital as compared to existing regulations. 

When fully phased in on January 1, 2019, the Basel III Capital Rules will require United and its banking subsidiaries to maintain (i) a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% &#147;capital conservation buffer&#148; (which is added to the 4.5% CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7% upon full implementation), (ii) a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0% Tier 1 capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation), (iii) a minimum ratio of Total capital (that is, Tier 1 plus Tier 2) to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation) and (iv) a minimum leverage ratio of 4%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to average assets (as compared to a current minimum leverage ratio of 3% for banking organizations that either have the highest supervisory rating or have implemented the appropriate federal regulatory authority&#146;s risk-adjusted measure for market risk). 

The Basel III Capital Rules also provide for a &#147;countercyclical capital buffer&#148; that is applicable to only certain covered institutions and is not expected to have any current applicability to United and its banking subsidiaries. 

The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the capital conservation buffer (or below the combined capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the latter is applied) will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. 

Under the Basel III Capital Rules, the initial minimum capital ratios as of January 1, 2015 are as follows: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; 4.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; 6.0% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; 8.0% Total capital to risk-weighted assets. 

The Basel III Capital Rules provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets dependent upon future taxable income and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1. Under current capital standards, the effects of accumulated other comprehensive income items included in capital are excluded for the purposes of determining regulatory capital ratios. Under the Basel III Capital Rules, the effects of certain accumulated other comprehensive items are not excluded; however, non-advanced approaches banking organizations, including United and its banking subsidiaries, may make a one-time permanent election to continue to exclude these items. United and its banking subsidiaries expect to make this election in order to avoid significant variations in the level of capital depending upon the impact of interest rate fluctuations on the fair value 

&#160; 

of United&#146;s securities portfolio. The Basel III Capital Rules also preclude certain hybrid securities, such as trust preferred securities, as Tier 1 capital of bank holding companies, subject to phase-out. However, the Basel III Capital Rules grandfathers non-qualifying capital instruments in the Tier 1 capital of bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of less than $15 billion as of December 31, 2009 (subject to limits). Non-qualifying capital instruments under the final rule include trust preferred securities and cumulative perpetual preferred stock issued before May 19, 2010 that bank holding companies included in Tier 1 capital under the limitations for restricted capital elements in the general risk-based capital rules. As a result, beginning in 2015, United&#146;s and its banking subsidiaries&#146; trust preferred securities will be subject to a limit of 25 percent of Tier 1 capital elements excluding any non-qualifying capital instruments and after all regulatory capital deductions and adjustments applied to Tier 1 capital, which is substantially similar to the limit in the general risk-based capital rules. Trust preferred securities no longer included in United&#146;s and its banking subsidiaries&#146; Tier 1 capital may be included as a component of Tier 2 capital on a permanent basis without phase-out. 

Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to CET1 began on January 1, 2015 and will be phased-in over a 4-year period (beginning at 40% on January 1, 2015 and an additional 20% per year thereafter). The implementation of the capital conservation buffer will begin on January 1, 2016 at the 0.625% level and be phased in over a four-year period (increasing by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019). 

The Basel III Capital Rules prescribe a standardized approach for risk weightings that expand the risk-weighting categories from the current four Basel I-derived categories (0%, 20%, 50% and 100%) to a much larger and more risk-sensitive number of categories, depending on the nature of the assets, generally ranging from 0% for U.S. government and agency securities, to 600% for certain equity exposures, and resulting in higher risk weights for a variety of asset categories. Specific changes to current rules impacting United&#146;s determination of risk-weighted assets include, among other things: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Applying a 150% risk weight instead of a 100% risk weight for certain high volatility commercial real estate acquisition, development and construction loans. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Assigning a 150% risk weight to exposures (other than residential mortgage exposures) that are 90 days past due. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Providing for a 20% credit conversion factor for the unused portion of a commitment with an original maturity of one year or less that is not unconditionally cancellable (currently set at 0%). 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Providing for a risk weight, generally not less than 20% with certain exceptions, for securities lending transactions based on the risk weight category of the underlying collateral securing the transaction. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Providing for a 100% risk weight for claims on securities firms. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Eliminating the current 50% cap on the risk weight for OTC derivatives. 

In addition, the Basel III Capital Rules also provide more advantageous risk weights for derivatives and repurchase-style transactions cleared through a qualifying central counterparty and increases the scope of eligible guarantors and eligible collateral for purposes of credit risk mitigation. 

The Basel III liquidity framework also requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests. One test, referred to as the &#147;Liquidity Coverage Ratio&#148; (&#147;LCR&#148;), is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets equal to the entity&#146;s expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon (or, if greater, 25% of its expected total cash outflow) under an acute liquidity stress scenario. The other test, referred to as the &#147;Net Stable Funding Ratio&#148; (&#147;NSFR&#148;), is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. These requirements will incent banking entities to increase their holdings of 

&#160; 

U.S. Treasury securities and other sovereign debt as a component of assets and increase long-term debt as a funding source. On September 3, 2014, the federal banking agencies finalized rules implementing the LCR for advanced approaches banking organizations and a modified version of the LCR for bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets that are not advanced approaches banking organizations, neither of which would apply to United or its banking subsidiaries. The federal banking agencies have not yet proposed rules to implement the NSFR. 

As of December 31, 2015, United and its banking subsidiaries meet all capital adequacy requirements under the Basel III Capital Rules on a fully phased-in basis if such requirements were currently effective. 

The Basel III Capital Rules adopted in July of 2013 do not address the proposed Liquidity Coverage Ratio Test and Net Stable Funding Ratio Test called for by the proposed Basel III framework. 

Failure to meet statutorily mandated capital guidelines or more restrictive ratios separately established for a financial institution could subject United to a variety of enforcement remedies, including issuance of a capital directive, the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, a prohibition on accepting or renewing brokered deposits, limitations on the rates of interest that the institution may pay on its deposits and other restrictions on its business. As described below, significant additional restrictions can be imposed on United if it would fail to meet applicable capital requirements. 

Prompt Corrective Action 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (&#147;FDICIA&#148;) establishes a new regulatory scheme, which ties the level of supervisory intervention by bank regulatory authorities primarily to a depository institution&#146;s capital category. Among other things, FDICIA authorizes regulatory authorities to take &#147;prompt corrective action&#148; with respect to depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital tiers: well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized. 

Effective January 1, 2015, under the Basel III Capital Rules, the current prompt corrective action requirements for an institution to be &#147;well-capitalized&#148; is a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8% or greater, a CET1 ratio of 6.5% or greater and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5 percent or greater. 

United&#146;s Banking Subsidiaries were &#147;well capitalized&#148; institutions as of December 31, 2015. Well-capitalized institutions are permitted to engage in a wider range of banking activities, including among other things, the accepting of &#147;brokered deposits,&#148; and the offering of interest rates on deposits higher than the prevailing rate in their respective markets. 

Community Reinvestment Act 

The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (&#147;CRA&#148;) requires depository institutions to assist in meeting the credit needs of their market areas consistent with safe and sound banking practice. Under the CRA, each depository institution is required to help meet the credit needs of its market areas by, among other things, providing credit to low- and moderate-income individuals and communities. Depository institutions are periodically examined for compliance with the CRA and are assigned ratings. Banking regulators take into account CRA ratings when considering approval of a proposed transaction. Each of United&#146;s Banking Subsidiaries received a rating of &#147;satisfactory&#148; in their most recent CRA examination. 

&#160; 

Cybersecurity 

In March 2015, federal regulators issued two related statements regarding cybersecurity. One statement indicates that financial institutions should design multiple layers of security controls to establish lines of defense and to ensure that their risk management processes also address the risk posed by compromised customer credentials, including security measures to reliably authenticate customers accessing internet-based services of the financial institution. The other statement indicates that a financial institution&#146;s management is expected to maintain sufficient business continuity planning processes to ensure the rapid recovery, resumption and maintenance of the institution&#146;s operations after a cyber-attack involving destructive malware. A financial institution is also expected to develop appropriate processes to enable recovery of data and business operations and address rebuilding network capabilities and restoring data if the institution or its critical service providers fall victim to this type of cyber-attack. If United fails to observe the regulatory guidance, United could be subject to various regulatory sanctions, including financial penalties. 

In the ordinary course of business, United relies on electronic communications and information systems to conduct its operations and to store sensitive data. United employs an in-depth, layered, defensive approach that leverages people, processes and technology to manage and maintain cybersecurity controls. United employs a variety of preventative and detective tools to monitor, block, and provide alerts regarding suspicious activity, as well as to report on any suspected advanced persistent threats. Notwithstanding the strength of its defensive measures, the threat from cyber-attacks is severe, attacks are sophisticated and increasing in volume, and attackers respond rapidly to changes in defensive measures. While to date, United and its Banking Subsidiaries have not experienced a significant compromise, significant data loss or any material financial losses related to cybersecurity attacks, United&#146;s systems and those of its customers and third-party service providers are under constant threat and it is possible that United could experience a significant event in the future. Risks and exposures related to cybersecurity attacks are expected to remain high for the foreseeable future due to the rapidly evolving nature and sophistication of these threats, as well as due to the expanding use of Internet banking, mobile banking and other technology-based products and services by United and its customers. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a further discussion of risk related to cybersecurity. 

Deposit Acquisition Limitation 

Under West Virginia banking law, an acquisition or merger is not permitted if the resulting depository institution or its holding company, including its affiliated depository institutions, would assume additional deposits to cause it to control deposits in the State of West Virginia in excess of twenty five percent (25%) of such total amount of all deposits held by insured depository institutions in West Virginia. This limitation may be waived by the Commissioner of Banking by showing good cause. 

Consumer Laws and Regulations 

In addition to the banking laws and regulations discussed above, bank subsidiaries are also subject to certain consumer laws and regulations that are designed to protect consumers in transactions with banks. Among the more prominent of such laws and regulations are the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, and the Fair Housing Act. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with customers when taking deposits or making loans to such customers. Bank subsidiaries must comply with the applicable provisions of these consumer protection laws and regulations as part of their ongoing customer relations. 

As discussed above, the Dodd-Frank Act centralized responsibility for consumer financial protection by creating the CFPB, and giving it responsibility for implementing, examining and enforcing compliance with federal consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services, including deposit products, residential mortgages, home-equity loans, and credit cards. The CFPB&#146;s functions include investigating consumer complaints, rulemaking, supervising and examining banks&#146; consumer transactions, and enforcing rules related to consumer financial products and services. Banks with less than $10 billion in assets, such as United&#146;s Banking Subsidiaries, will be subject to these federal consumer financial laws, but will continue to be examined for compliance by the Federal Reserve, its primary federal banking regulator. 

&#160; 

Incentive Compensation 

The Federal Reserve Board reviews, as part of its regular, risk-focused examination process, the incentive compensation arrangements of banking organizations, such as United, that are not &#147;large, complex banking organizations.&#148; These reviews are tailored to each organization based on the scope and complexity of the organization&#146;s activities and the prevalence of incentive compensation arrangements. The findings of this supervisory initiative will be included in reports of examination. Deficiencies will be incorporated into the organization&#146;s supervisory ratings, which can affect the organization&#146;s ability to make acquisitions and take other actions. Enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements, or related risk-management control or governance processes, pose a risk to the organization&#146;s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. 

In June 2010, the Federal Reserve Board, OCC and FDIC issued comprehensive final guidance on incentive compensation policies intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk-taking. The guidance, which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a banking organization&#146;s incentive compensation arrangements should (i) provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the organization&#146;s ability to effectively identify and manage risks, (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organization&#146;s board of directors. 

In April 2011, the Federal Reserve Board, other federal banking agencies and the SEC jointly published proposed rulemaking designed to implement provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act prohibiting incentive compensation arrangements that would encourage inappropriate risk taking at a covered institution, which includes a bank or bank holding company with $1 billion or more of assets, such as United. The proposed rule (i) prohibits incentive-based compensation arrangements that encourage executive officers, employees, directors or principal shareholders to expose the institution to inappropriate risks by providing excessive compensation (based on the standards for excessive compensation adopted pursuant to the FDIA) and (ii) prohibits incentive-based compensation arrangements for executive officers, employees, directors or principal shareholders that could lead to a material financial loss for the institution. The proposed rule requires covered institutions to establish policies and procedures for monitoring and evaluating their compensation practices. The comment period ended in May 2011. Although final rules have not been adopted as of February 2016, officials from the Federal Reserve have recently indicated that the U.S. banking regulators are in the process of preparing for public comment a new rule on incentive compensation. If these or other regulations are adopted in a form similar to that initially proposed, they will impose limitations on the manner in which we may structure compensation for our executives. 

The scope and content of the U.S. banking regulators&#146; policies on incentive compensation are continuing to develop. It cannot be determined at this time whether or when a final rule will be adopted and whether compliance with such a final rule will adversely affect the ability of United and its Banking Subsidiaries to hire, retain and motivate their key employees. 

&#160;

