 Item 1. Business. 

General Development of the Business . 

Universal Forest Products, Inc. (the "Company") is a holding company with subsidiaries throughout North America and in Australia that supply wood, wood composite and other products to three primary markets: retail, construction and industrial. The Company is headquartered in Grand Rapids, Mich., and was founded in 1955. For more information about Universal Forest Products, Inc., or its affiliated operations, go to www.ufpi.com. 

Information relating to current developments in our business is incorporated by reference from our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 26, 2015 ("2015 Annual Report") under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Selected portions of the 2015 Annual Report are filed as Exhibit 13 with this Form 10-K Report. 

Financial Information About Segments. 

ASC 280, Segment Reporting &#32;(&#8220;ASC 280&#8221;) defines operating segments as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. 

Our operating segments consist of our North, South, West, Alternative Materials, International, and Corporate divisions. Separate financial information about our segments is incorporated by reference from Note N of the Consolidated Financial Statements presented under Item 8 herein. 

Narrative Description of Business . 

We design, manufacture and market wood and wood-alternative products for national home centers and other retailers, structural lumber and other products for the manufactured housing industry, engineered wood components for residential and commercial construction, and specialty wood packaging, components and packing materials for various industries. Each of our markets, Retail, Industrial and Construction, are discussed in the paragraphs which follow. Our locations generally serve customers representing multiple markets. 

Retail . The customers comprising this market are national home center retailers, retail-oriented regional lumberyards and contractor-oriented lumberyards. Generally, terms of sale are established for annual or bi-annual periods, and orders are placed with our regional facilities in accordance with established terms. One customer, The Home Depot, accounted for approximately 19% of our total sales in fiscal 2015, 17% in 2014, and 17% in 2013. 

We currently supply customers in this market from many of our locations. These regional facilities are able to supply mixed truckloads of products which can be delivered to customers with rapid turnaround from receipt of an order. Freight costs are a factor in the ability to competitively service this market, especially with treated wood products because of their heavier weight. The close proximity of our regional facilities to the various outlets of these customers is a factor when negotiating annual sales programs. 

The products offered to customers in this market include dimensional lumber (both preserved and unpreserved) and various "value-added products," some of which are sold under our trademarks. In addition to our conventional lumber products, we offer a large portfolio of outdoor living products, including wood composite decking and decorative lawn and garden products. We also sell engineered wood components to this market, which include roof trusses, wall panels and engineered floor systems (see "Construction Market" below). 

We are not aware of any competitor that currently manufactures, treats and distributes a full line of both value-added and commodity products on a national basis. We face competition on individual products from several different producers, but the majority of these competitors tend to be regional in their efforts and/or do not offer a full line of outdoor lumber products. We believe the breadth of our product offering, geographic dispersion, close proximity of our plants to core customers, purchasing and manufacturing expertise, and service capabilities provide competitive advantages in this market. 

Industrial Market . We define our industrial market as manufacturers and agricultural customers who use pallets, specialty crates, wooden boxes, and other containers used for packaging, shipping and material handling purposes, as well as other products used 

in a variety of different applications. Many of the products sold to this market may be produced from the by-product of other manufactured products, thereby allowing us to increase our raw material yields while expanding our business. Competition is fragmented and includes virtually every supplier of lumber convenient to the customer. We service this market with our dedicated local sales teams and through national sales support efforts. 

Construction Market . Our construction market is made up of customers in three submarkets - manufactured housing, residential construction and commercial construction. 

The customers comprising the manufactured housing market are producers of mobile, modular and prefabricated homes and recreational vehicles (RV). Products sold to customers in this market consist primarily of roof trusses, lumber cut and shaped to the customer's specification, plywood, oriented strand board and dimensional lumber, all intended for use in the construction of manufactured housing. Sales are made by personnel located at each regional facility based on customer orders. Our principal competitive advantages include our product knowledge, the strength of our engineering support services, the close proximity of our regional facilities to our customers, our purchasing and manufacturing expertise and our ability to provide national sales programs to certain customers. These factors have enabled us to accumulate significant market share in the products we supply. We also distribute products such as siding, electrical and plumbing to manufactured housing and RV customers, and entered this business through acquisitions completed in 2010. 

We entered the residential and commercial construction market through a series of strategic business acquisitions beginning in 1998. The customers comprising the residential construction market are primarily large-volume, multi-tract builders and smaller volume custom builders. We also supply builders engaged in multi-family and commercial construction. In addition, we supply wood forms and related products to set or form concrete for various structures including large parking garages, stadiums and bridges. Generally, terms of sale and pricing are determined based on contracts we entered into with our customers. 

We currently supply customers in these markets from manufacturing facilities located in many different states. These facilities manufacture various engineered wood components used to frame residential or light commercial projects, including roof and floor trusses, wall panels, I-joists and lumber packages. Freight costs are a factor in the ability to competitively service this market due to the space requirements of these products on each truckload. We also provide framing services for customers in certain regional markets, in which we erect the wood structure. We believe that providing a comprehensive turn-key package, including installation, provides a competitive advantage. 

Competition in this market is primarily fragmented, but we do compete with a small number of national and regional retail contractor yards who also manufacture components and provide framing services, as well as regional manufacturers of components. We believe our primary competitive advantages relate to the engineering and design capabilities of our regional staff, purchasing and manufacturing expertise, product quality, timeliness of delivery, and financial strength. 

Suppliers . We are one of the largest domestic buyers of solid sawn softwood lumber from primary producers (lumber mills). We use primarily southern yellow pine in our pressure-treating operations and site-built component plants in the Southeastern United States, which we obtain from mills located throughout the states comprising the Sunbelt. Other species we use include "spruce-pine-fir" from various provinces in Canada; hemlock, douglas fir and cedar from the Pacific Northwest; inland species of pine, plantation grown radiata and southern yellow pines from South America; and European spruce. There are numerous primary producers for all varieties we use, and we are not dependent on any particular source of supply. Our financial resources and size, in combination with our strong sales network and ability to remanufacture lumber, enable us to purchase a large percentage of a primary producer's output (as opposed to only those dimensions or grades in immediate need), thereby lowering our average cost of raw materials and allowing us to obtain programs such as consigned inventory. We believe this represents a competitive advantage. 

Intellectual Property . We own several patents and have several patents pending on technologies related to our business. In addition, we own numerous registered trademarks and claim common law trademark rights to several others. As we develop proprietary brands, we may pursue registration or other formal protection. While we believe our patent and trademark rights are valuable, the loss of a patent or any trademark would not be likely to have a material adverse impact on our competitive position. 

Backlog . Due to the nature of our retail and industrial businesses, backlog information is not meaningful. The maximum time between receipt of a firm order and shipment does not usually exceed a few days. Therefore, we would not normally have a backlog of unfilled orders in a material amount. The relationships with our major customers are such that we are either the exclusive supplier of certain products and/or certain geographic areas, or the designated source for a specified portion of the customer's requirements. In such cases, either we are able to forecast the customer's requirements or the customer may provide an estimate of its future needs. In neither case, however, will we receive firm orders until just prior to the anticipated delivery dates for the products in question. 

On December 26, 2015 and December 27, 2014, we estimate that backlog orders associated with our residential and commercial construction business approximated $65.6 million and $60.6 million, respectively. With respect to the former, we expect that these orders will be primarily filled within the next fiscal year; however, it is possible that some orders could be canceled. 

Environmental . Information required for environmental disclosures is incorporated by reference from Note M of the Consolidated Financial Statements presented under Item 8 herein. 

Seasonality. &#160; Information required for seasonality disclosures is incorporated by reference from Item 1A. Risk Factors under the caption &#8220; Seasonality and weather conditions could adversely affect us .&#8221; 

Employees . On December 26, 2015, we had approximately 7,000 employees. 

Financial Information About Geographic Areas. 

The dominant portion of our operations and sales occur in the United States. Separate financial information about foreign and domestic operations and export sales is incorporated by reference from Note N of the Consolidated Financial Statements presented under Item 8 herein. 

Available Information. 

Our Internet address is www.ufpi.com. Through our Internet website under "Financial Information" in the Investor Relations section, we make available free of charge, as soon as reasonably practical after such information has been filed with the SEC, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act. Also available through our Internet website under "Corporate Governance" in the Investor Relations section is our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers. 

Reports to Security Holders. 

Not applicable. 

Enforceability of Civil Liabilities Against Foreign Persons. 

Not applicable. 

