 Item 1. Description of Business 

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This annual report contains forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. These statements often can be identified by the use of terms such as &#34;may,&#34; &#34;will,&#34; &#34;expect,&#34; &#34;believe,&#34; &#34;anticipate,&#34; &#34;estimate,&#34; &#34;approximate&#34; or &#34;continue,&#34; or the negative thereof. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors for such statements. We wish to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Any forward-looking statements represent management's best judgment as to what may occur in the future. However, forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and important factors beyond our control that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from historical results of operations and events and those presently anticipated or projected. We disclaim any obligation subsequently to revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statement or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events.

GENERAL

We were incorporated in the State of Nevada on September 05, 2013. We are in the business of selling freshly squeezed juices from mobile stands in London, United Kingdom. 

Taking advantage of mobility of our juice stands we are going to place them at what we believe to be popular tourist places including strip centers, power centers and shopping malls during the colder period of the year and sport sites events. At present moment we do not have customers or juice stands and we currently have minimal operations. We intend to place such juice stands in places we believe are popular places for tourists and places with high volume of people traffic.

MARKETING/ LOCATIONS 

The sales and marketing strategy is to focus placing Juice stands in places that are frequented by people such as:

&#160; 1. tourist attractions,

2. strip centers, power centers, shopping malls,

3. health and fitness clubs,

4. transportation hub such as bus, train, subway, airports, marinas.

PROMOTIONAL STRATEGY

The company will promote in the following ways:

Stand Media Frequency Budget 

&#160;

Online Website One time $1,000

Online Social Media Ongoing $1,000

Print Promotional Flyers Ongoing $1,000-$4,000

Location Poster, radio and TV Ongoing $500-$8,000

Location Free Sampling Ongoing $1,500-$4,500

Referrals Word of Mouth Ongoing Free

PRODUCT DESCRIPTION

We plan on purchasing the following type of equipment:

SUPER ANGEL ALL STAINLESS STEEL TWIN GEAR JUICER

MODEL: 5500

SUPPLIER: AMAZON.COM INC.

Super Angel Living Juice Extractor is a juice extractor with all stainless steel construction. Based upon our President's experience with juicers, we believe that the Super Angel Living Juice Extractor can juice almost anything from carrot and apples to wheatgrass and spinach. Its all stainless steel design incorporates a twin gear impeller press system that powerfully rotates at a low 86 rpm speed that we believe can keep all enzymes and nutrients alive in the juice. We believe that the Super Angel Juicer is perfect for wheat grass, barley grass, leafy greens, herbs and sprouts. Dimensions of the juice extractor are: 19&#34; H x 7.8&#34; W x 10.5&#34; D. Delivery is included.

STAINLESS STEEL UNDER COUNTER SERVICE REFRIGERATOR MODEL: POLAR CD080 SUPPLIER: JJ MARTIN (CATERING APPLIANCE SUPERSTORE) LTD

Under counter fridge, fully lockable with LED digital temperature display and rear castors for maneuverability. Dimensions of refrigerator are: 850(h) x 600(w) x 600(d) mm, refrigeration capacity 150 l. Delivery is included.

JUICE SERVICE STAND

Each stand is one meter wide, two meters long and one meter high. (2m square). The stand will be delivered to the location by truck. The cost of the delivery is included in the price of the stand. The cost of the juice extractor does not include delivery to the location of the stand but it does include shipping from manufacture to our office. Due to the size of the juice extractor, delivery to the location of the stand it will be done by the car. Our director and president

Roman Ehlert owns a truck and a small 2m trailer in his present possession that he intends to use to move our stands to different locations when necessary. Transportation between different locations, due to the size of the stand: 1m H x 1m W x 2m L will be done by small pickup truck or on a trailer.

PRICING

Our pricing will be determined by averaging surrounding restaurants that provide our type of service and charging that average. We plan to raise the price of our product periodically to keep in pace with the rising commodity prices and inflation.

EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS

At present, we have no employees other than our officer and director. We presently do not have pension, health, annuity, insurance, stock options, profit sharing or similar benefit plans; however, we may adopt such plans in the future. There are presently no personal benefits available to any officers, directors or employees.

