 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

UMB Financial Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context requires otherwise, the Company) is a diversified financial holding company that is headquartered in Kansas City, Missouri. Together with its subsidiaries, the Company supplies banking services, institutional investment management, asset servicing, and payment solutions to its customers in the United States and around the globe. 

The Company was organized as a corporation under Missouri law in 1967 and is registered as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the BHCA) and a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, as amended (the GLBA). The Company currently owns all of the outstanding stock of one national bank and several nonbank subsidiaries. 

The Company&#146;s national bank, UMB Bank, National Association (the Bank), has its principal office in Missouri and also has branches in Arizona, Colorado, Illinois, Kansas, Nebraska, Oklahoma, and Texas. The Bank offers a full complement of banking products and other services to commercial, retail, government, and correspondent-bank customers, including a wide range of asset-management, trust, bank-card, and cash-management services. 

The Company&#146;s significant nonbank subsidiaries include the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Scout Investments, Inc. (Scout) is an institutional asset-management company that is headquartered in Kansas City, Missouri. Scout offers domestic and international equity strategies through its Scout Asset Management Division and fixed income strategies through its Reams Asset Management Division. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; UMB Fund Services, Inc. (UMBFS) is located in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania, and Ogden, Utah, and provides fund accounting, transfer agency, and other services to mutual fund and alternative-investment groups. On a full-time equivalent basis at December 31, 2015, the Company and its subsidiaries employed 3,830 persons. 

Business Segments 

The Company&#146;s products and services are grouped into four segments: Bank, Institutional Investment Management, Asset Servicing, and Payment Solutions. 

These segments and their financial results are described in detail in (i) the section of Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations entitled Business Segments , which can be found in Part II, Item 7, pages 35 through 37, of this report and (ii) Note 12, &#147;Business Segment Reporting,&#148; in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which can be found in Part II, Item 8, pages 98 through 99 of this report. 

Competition 

The Company faces intense competition in each of its business segments and in all of the markets and geographic regions that the Company serves. Competition comes from both traditional and non-traditional financial-services providers, including banks, savings associations, finance companies, investment advisors, asset managers, mutual funds, private-equity firms, hedge funds, brokerage firms, mortgage-banking companies, credit-card companies, insurance companies, trust companies, securities processing companies, and credit unions. Recently, financial-technology (fintech) companies have been partnering more often with financial-services 

&#160;

providers to compete with the Company for lending, payments, and other business. Many competitors are not subject to the same kind or degree of supervision and regulation as the Company. 

Competition is based on a number of factors. Banking customers are generally influenced by convenience, rates and pricing, personal experience, quality and availability of products and other services, lending limits, transaction execution, and reputation. Investment advisory services compete primarily on returns, expenses, third-party ratings, and the reputation and performance of managers. Asset servicing competes primarily on price, quality of services, and reputation. The Company and its competitors all are impacted by the overall economy and health of the financial markets. The degree of impact will vary based on the basis of risk of each competitor and their approach to managing them. 

Successfully competing in the Company&#146;s chosen markets and regions also depends on the Company&#146;s ability to attract, retain, and motivate talented employees, to invest in technology and infrastructure, and to innovate, all the while effectively managing its expenses. The Company expects that competition will only intensify in the future. 

Government Monetary and Fiscal Policies 

In addition to the impact of general economic conditions, the Company&#146;s business, results of operations, financial condition, capital, liquidity, and prospects are significantly affected by government monetary and fiscal policies that are announced or implemented in the United States and abroad. 

A sizeable influence is exerted, in particular, by the policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the FRB), which influences monetary and credit conditions in the economy in pursuit of maximum employment, stable prices, and moderate long-term interest rates. Among the FRB&#146;s policy tools are (1) open market operations (that is, purchases or sales of securities in the open market for the purpose of adjusting the supply of reserve balances and thus achieving targeted federal funds rates or for the purpose of putting pressure on longer-term interest rates and thus achieving more desirable levels of economic activity and job creation), (2) the discount rate charged on loans by the Federal Reserve Banks, (3) the level of reserves required to be held by depository institutions against specified deposit liabilities, (4) the interest paid or charged on balances maintained with the Federal Reserve Banks by depository institutions, including balances used to satisfy their reserve requirements, and (5) other deposit and loan facilities. 

The FRB and its policies have a substantial impact on the availability and demand for loans and deposits, the rates and other aspects of pricing for loans and deposits, and the conditions in equity, fixed income, currency, and other markets in which the Company operates. Policies announced or implemented by other central banks around the world have a meaningful effect as well and sometimes may be coordinated with those of the FRB. 

Tax and other fiscal policies, moreover, impact not only general economic conditions but also give rise to incentives or disincentives that affect how the Company and its customers prioritize objectives, operate businesses, and deploy resources. 

Regulation and Supervision 

The Company is subject to regulatory frameworks in the United States at federal, State, and local levels. In addition, the Company is subject to the direct supervision of various government authorities charged with overseeing the kinds of financial activities conducted by its business segments. 

This section summarizes some pertinent provisions of the principal laws that apply to the Company. The descriptions, however, are not complete and are qualified in their entirety by the full text and judicial or administrative interpretations of those laws and other laws that affect the Company. 

&#160;

Overview 

The Company is a bank holding company under the BHCA and a financial holding company under the GLBA. As a result, the Company &#150; including all of its businesses and operations in the United States and abroad &#150; are subject to the regulation, supervision, and examination of the FRB and to restrictions on permissible activities. This scheme of regulation, supervision, and examination is intended primarily for the protection and benefit of depositors and other customers of the Bank, the Deposit Insurance Fund (the DIF) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the FDIC), the banking and financial systems as a whole, and the broader economy, not for the protection or benefit of the Company&#146;s shareholders or its non-deposit creditors. 

Many of the Company&#146;s subsidiaries are also subject to separate or related forms of regulation, supervision, and examination: for example, (1) the Bank by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the OCC) under the National Banking Acts, the FDIC under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the FDIA) , and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the CFPB) under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act); (2) Scout, Scout Distributors, LLC, UMBFS, UMB Distribution Services, LLC, UMB Financial Services, Inc., and Prairie Capital Management, LLC by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) and State regulatory authorities under federal and State securities laws, and UMB Distribution Services, LLC and UMB Financial Services, Inc. by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) as well; and (3) UMB Insurance, Inc. by State regulatory authorities under applicable State insurance laws. These schemes, like that overseen by the FRB, are designed to protect public or private interests that often are not aligned with those of the Company&#146;s shareholders or non-deposit creditors. 

The FRB possesses extensive authorities and powers to regulate the conduct of the Company&#146;s businesses and operations. If the FRB were to take the position that the Company or any of its subsidiaries have violated any law or commitment or engaged in any unsafe or unsound practice, formal or informal corrective or enforcement actions could be taken by the FRB against the Company, its subsidiaries, and institution-affiliated parties (such as directors, officers, and agents). These enforcement actions could include an imposition of civil monetary penalties and could directly affect not only the Company, its subsidiaries, and institution-affiliated parties but also the Company&#146;s counterparties, shareholders, and creditors and its commitments, arrangements, or other dealings with them. The OCC has similarly expansive authorities and powers over the Bank and its subsidiaries, as does the CFPB over matters involving consumer financial laws. The SEC, FINRA, and other domestic or foreign government authorities also have an array of means at their disposal to regulate and enforce matters within their jurisdiction that could impact the Company&#146;s businesses and operations. 

Restrictions on Permissible Activities and Corporate Matters 

Bank holding companies and their subsidiaries, under the BHCA, are generally limited to the business of banking and to closely-related activities that are incident to banking. 

As a bank holding company that has elected to become a financial holding company under the GLBA, the Company is also able &#150; directly or indirectly through its subsidiaries &#150; to engage in activities that are financial in nature, that are incidental to a financial activity, or that are complementary to a financial activity and do not pose a substantial risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally. Activities that are financial in nature include (1) underwriting, dealing in, or making a market in securities, (2) providing financial, investment, or economic advisory services, (3) underwriting insurance, and (4) merchant banking. 

The Company&#146;s ability to directly or indirectly engage in these banking and financial activities, however, is subject to conditions and other limits imposed by law or the FRB and, in some cases, requires the approval of the FRB or other government authorities. These conditions or other limits may arise due to the particular type of activity or, in other cases, may apply to the Company&#146;s business more generally. An example of the former is the substantial restrictions on the timing, amount, form, substance, interconnectedness, and management of the Company&#146;s merchant banking investments. An example of the latter is a condition that, in order for the Company 

&#160;

to engage in broader financial activities, its depository institutions must remain &#147;well capitalized&#148; and &#147;well managed&#148; under applicable banking laws and must receive at least a &#147;satisfactory&#148; rating under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). 

Under amendments to the BHCA effected by the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 and the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company may acquire banks outside of its home State of Missouri, subject to specified limits and may establish new branches in other States to the same extent as banks chartered in those States. Under the BHCA, however, the Company must procure the prior approval of the FRB and possibly other government authorities to directly or indirectly acquire ownership or control of five percent or more of any class of voting securities of, or substantially all of the assets of, an unaffiliated bank, savings association, or bank holding company. In deciding whether to approve any acquisition or branch, the FRB, the OCC, and other government authorities will consider public or private interests that may not be aligned with those of the Company&#146;s shareholders or non-deposit creditors. The FRB also has the power to require the Company to divest any depository institution that cannot maintain its &#147;well capitalized&#148; or &#147;well managed&#148; status. 

The FRB maintains a targeted policy that requires a bank holding company to inform and consult with the staff of the FRB sufficiently in advance of (1) declaring and paying a dividend that could raise safety and soundness concerns (for example, a dividend that exceeds earnings in the period for which the dividend is being paid), (2) redeeming or repurchasing regulatory capital instruments when the holding company is experiencing financial weaknesses, or (3) redeeming or repurchasing common stock or perpetual preferred stock that would result in a net reduction as of the end of the quarter in the amount of those equity instruments outstanding compared with the beginning of the quarter in which the redemption or repurchase occurred. 

Requirements Affecting the Relationships among the Company, Its Subsidiaries, and Other Affiliates 

The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank, Scout, UMBFS, and its other subsidiaries but receives the vast majority of its revenue in the form of dividends from those subsidiaries. Without the approval of the OCC, however, dividends payable by the Bank in any calendar year may not exceed the lesser of (1) the current year&#146;s net income combined with the retained net income of the two preceding years and (2) undivided profits. In addition, under the Basel III capital-adequacy standards described below under the heading &#147;Capital-Adequacy Standards,&#148; the Bank is required beginning January 1, 2016, to maintain a capital conservation buffer in excess of its minimum risk-based capital ratios and will be restricted in declaring and paying dividends whenever the buffer is breached. The authorities and powers of the FRB, the OCC, and other government authorities to prevent any unsafe or unsound practice also could be employed to further limit the dividends that the Bank or the Company&#146;s other subsidiaries may declare and pay to the Company. 

The Dodd-Frank Act codified the FRB&#146;s policy requiring a bank holding company like the Company to serve as a source of financial strength for its depository-institution subsidiaries and to commit resources to support those subsidiaries in circumstances when the Company might not otherwise elect to do so. The functional regulator of any nonbank subsidiary of the Company, however, may prevent that subsidiary from directly or indirectly contributing its financial support, and if that were to preclude the Company from serving as an adequate source of financial strength, the FRB may instead require the divestiture of depository-institution subsidiaries and impose operating restrictions pending such a divestiture. 

A number of laws, principally Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, and the FRB&#146;s Regulation W, also exist to prevent the Company and its nonbank subsidiaries from taking improper advantage of the benefits afforded to the Bank as a depository institution, including its access to federal deposit insurance and the discount window. These laws generally require the Bank and its subsidiaries to deal with the Company and its nonbank subsidiaries only on market terms and, in addition, impose restrictions on the Bank and its subsidiaries in directly or indirectly extending credit to or engaging in other covered transactions with the Company or its nonbank subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act rextended the restrictions to derivatives and securities lending 

&#160;

transactions and expanded the restrictions for transactions involving hedge funds or private-equity funds that are owned or sponsored by the Company or its nonbank subsidiaries. 

In addition, under amendments to the BHCA set forth in the Dodd-Frank Act and commonly known as the Volcker Rule, the Company is subject to extensive limits on proprietary trading and on owning or sponsoring hedge funds and private-equity funds. The limits on proprietary trading are largely directed toward purchases or sales of financial instruments by a banking entity as principal primarily for the purpose of short-term resale, a benefit from actual or expected short-term price movements, or the realization of short-term arbitrage profits. The limits on owning or sponsoring hedge funds and private-equity funds are designed to ensure that banking entities generally maintain only small positions in managed or advised funds and are not exposed to significant losses arising directly or indirectly from them. The Volcker Rule also provides for increased capital charges, quantitative limits, rigorous compliance programs, and other restrictions on permitted proprietary trading and fund activities, including a prohibition on transactions with a covered fund that would constitute a covered transaction under Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act. 

Additional Requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act 

On an annual basis, the Company and the Bank are required under the Dodd-Frank Act to conduct forward-looking, company-run stress tests as an aid to ensuring that each entity would have sufficient capital to absorb losses and support operations during adverse economic conditions. Summaries of stress-test results for the Company and the Bank are expected to be disclosed each year in the fall. 

Several additional requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations apply by their terms only to bank holding companies with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more and systemically important nonbank financial companies. These requirements include enhanced prudential standards, submission to the comprehensive capital analysis and review, more stringent capital and liquidity requirements, stricter limits on leverage, early remediation requirements, resolution planning, single-counterparty exposure limits, increased liabilities for assessments to the FRB and the FDIC, and mandates imposed by the Financial Stability Oversight Council. While the Company and its subsidiaries are not expressly subject to these requirements, their imposition on global and super-regional institutions has resulted in heightened supervision of regional institutions like the Company by the FRB, the OCC, and other government authorities and in a more aggressive use of their extensive authorities and powers to regulate the Company&#146;s businesses and operations. 

Capital-Adequacy Standards 

The FRB and the OCC have adopted risk-based capital and leverage guidelines that require the capital-to-assets ratios of bank holding companies and national banks, respectively, to meet specified minimum standards. 

The risk-based capital ratios are based on a banking organization&#146;s risk-weighted asset amounts (RWAs), which are generally determined under the standardized approach applicable to the Company and the Bank by (1) assigning on-balance-sheet exposures to broad risk-weight categories according to the counterparty or, if relevant, the guarantor or collateral (with higher risk weights assigned to categories of exposures perceived as representing greater risk) and (2) multiplying off-balance-sheet exposures by specified credit conversion factors to calculate credit equivalent amounts and assigning those credit equivalent amounts to the relevant risk-weight categories. The leverage ratio, in contrast, is based on an institution&#146;s average on-balance-sheet exposures alone. 

Prior to January 1, 2015, the Company and the Bank were subject to capital-adequacy standards that had originally been promulgated in 1989 and that are commonly known as Basel I. The Company and the Bank were required to maintain, under Basel I, a minimum total risk-based capital ratio of total qualifying capital to RWAs of 8.0%, a minimum tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of tier 1 capital to RWAs of 4.0%, and a minimum tier 1 leverage ratio of tier 1 capital to average on-balance-sheet exposures of 4.0%. 

&#160;

In July 2013, the FRB and the OCC issued comprehensive revisions to the capital-adequacy standards, commonly known as Basel III, to which the Company and the Bank began transitioning on January 1, 2015, with full compliance required by January 1, 2019. Basel III bolsters the quantity and quality of capital required under the capital-adequacy guidelines, in part, by (1) imposing a new minimum common-equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5%, (2) raising the minimum tier 1 risk-based capital ratio to 6.0%, (3) establishing a new capital conservation buffer of common-equity tier 1 capital to RWAs of 2.5%, (4) amending the definition of qualifying capital to be more conservative, and (5) limiting capital distributions and specified discretionary bonus payments whenever the capital conservation buffer is breached. Basel III also enhances the risk sensitivity of the standardized approach to determining a banking organization&#146;s RWAs. 

The capital ratios for the Company and the Bank as of December 31, 2015, are set forth below: 

&#160;

&#160; &#160; Tier 1 Leverage Ratio &#160; &#160; Tier 1 Risk- Based Capital Ratio &#160; &#160; Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio &#160; &#160; Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio &#160; UMB Financial Corporation

&#160; &#160; 9.08 &#160; &#160; &#160; 11.86 &#160; &#160; &#160; 11.74 &#160; &#160; &#160; 12.80 &#160; UMB Bank, n.a.

&#160; &#160; 8.13 &#160; &#160; &#160; 10.63 &#160; &#160; &#160; 10.63 &#160; &#160; &#160; 11.22 &#160; These capital-to-assets ratios also play a central role in prompt corrective action (PCA), which is an enforcement framework used by the federal banking agencies to constrain the activities of banking organizations based on their levels of regulatory capital. Five categories have been established using thresholds for the total risk-based capital ratio, the tier 1 risk-based capital ratio, the common-equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio, and the leverage ratio: well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized. While bank holding companies are not subject to the PCA framework, the FRB is empowered to compel a holding company to take measures &#150; such as the execution of financial or performance guarantees &#150; when prompt corrective action is required in connection with one of its depository-institution subsidiaries. At December 31, 2015, the Bank was well capitalized under the PCA framework. 

Basel III includes a number of more rigorous provisions applicable only to banking organizations that are larger or more internationally active than the Company and the Bank. These include, for example, a supplementary leverage ratio incorporating off-balance-sheet exposures, a liquidity coverage ratio, and a net stable funding ratio. As with the Dodd-Frank Act, these standards may be informally applied or considered by the FRB and the OCC in their regulation, supervision, and examination of the Company and the Bank. 

Deposit Insurance and Related Matters 

The deposits of the Bank are insured by the FDIC in the standard insurance amount of $250 thousand per depositor for each account ownership category. This insurance is funded through assessments on the Bank and other insured depository institutions. In connection with implementing the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC in 2011 changed each institution&#146;s assessment base from its total insured deposits to its average consolidated total assets less average tangible equity and created a scorecard method for calculating assessments that combines CAMELS ratings and specified forward-looking financial measures to determine each institution&#146;s risk to the DIF. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the FDIC, in setting assessments, to offset the effect of increasing its reserve for the DIF on institutions with consolidated assets of less than $10 billion. The result of this revised approach to deposit-insurance assessments is generally an increase in costs, on an absolute or relative basis, for institutions with consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. 

If an insured depository institution such as the Bank were to become insolvent or if other specified events were to occur relating to its financial condition or the propriety of its actions, the FDIC may be appointed as conservator or receiver for the institution. In that capacity, the FDIC would have the power (1) to transfer assets and liabilities of the institution to another person or entity without the approval of the institution&#146;s creditors, (2) to require that its claims process be followed and to enforce statutory or other limits on damages claimed by the institution&#146;s creditors, (3) to enforce the institution&#146;s contracts or leases according to their terms, (4) to 

&#160;

repudiate or disaffirm the institution&#146;s contracts or leases, (5) to seek to reclaim, recover, or recharacterize transfers of the institution&#146;s assets or to exercise control over assets in which the institution may claim an interest, (6) to enforce statutory or other injunctions, and (7) to exercise a wide range of other rights, powers, and authorities, including those that could impair the rights and interests of all or some of the institution&#146;s creditors. In addition, the administrative expenses of the conservator or receiver could be afforded priority over all or some of the claims of the institution&#146;s creditors, and under the FDIA, the claims of depositors (including the FDIC as subrogee of depositors) would enjoy priority over the claims of the institution&#146;s unsecured creditors. 

The FDIA also provides that an insured depository institution can be held liable for any loss incurred or expected to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with another commonly controlled insured depository institution that is in default or in danger of default. This cross-guarantee liability is generally superior in right of payment to claims of the institution&#146;s holding company and its affiliates. 

Other Regulatory and Supervisory Matters 

As a public company, the Company is subject to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and other federal and State securities laws. In addition, because the Company&#146;s common stock is listed with The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (NASDAQ), the Company is subject to the listing rules of that exchange. 

The Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970 (commonly known as the Bank Secrecy Act), the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, and related laws require all financial institutions, including banks and broker-dealers, to establish a risk-based system of internal controls reasonably designed to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism. These laws are include a variety of recordkeeping and reporting requirements (such as currency and suspicious activity reporting) as well as know-your-customer and due-diligence rules. 

Under the CRA, the Bank has a continuing and affirmative obligation to help meet the credit needs of its local communities &#150; including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods &#150; consistent with safe and sound banking practices. The CRA does not create specific lending programs but does establish the framework and criteria by which the OCC regularly assesses the Bank&#146;s record in meeting these credit needs. The Bank&#146;s ratings under the CRA are taken into account by the FRB and the OCC when considering merger or other specified applications that the Company or the Bank may submit from time to time. 

The Bank is subject as well to a vast array of consumer-protection laws, such as qualified-mortgage and other mortgage-related rules under the jurisdiction of the CFPB. Lending limits, restrictions on tying arrangements, limits on permissible interest-rate charges, and other laws governing the conduct of banking or fiduciary activities are also applicable to the Bank. In addition, the GLBA imposes on the Company and its subsidiaries a number of obligations relating to financial privacy. 

Acquisitions 

On May 31, 2015 (the Acquisition Date), the Company acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Marquette Financial Companies (Marquette). The owners of Marquette received 9.2295 shares of the Company&#146;s common stock for each share of Marquette common stock owned at the Acquisition Date (approximately 3.47 million shares in the aggregate). The market value of the shares of the Company&#146;s common stock issued at the effective time of the merger was approximately $179.7 million, based on the closing price of the Company&#146;s common stock of $51.79 per share on May 29, 2015. See further information in Note 15, &#147;Acquisitions,&#148; in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which can be found in Part II, Item 8, pages 102 through 104 of this report. 

&#160;

Statistical Disclosure 

The information required by Guide 3, &#147;Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies,&#148; has been included in Part II, Items 6, 7, and 7A, pages 22 through 60, of this report. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant. The following are the executive officers of the Company, each of whom is appointed annually, and there are no arrangements or understandings between any of the executive officers and any other person pursuant to which such person was elected as an officer. 

&#160;

Name 

&#160; Age 

&#160; Position with Registrant 

Anthony J. Fischer

&#160; 57 &#160; Mr. Fischer was named the President of UMB Fund Services, Inc. in July 2014. Prior to that, he served UMB Fund Services Inc. as an Executive Vice President in charge of Business Development from March 2013 until June 2014 and as a Senior Vice President in Business Development from February 2008 through February 2013. Michael D. Hagedorn

&#160; 49 &#160; Mr. Hagedorn has served as Vice Chairman of the Company since October 2009 and was named President and Chief Executive Officer of the Bank in January 2014. He was appointed interim Chief Financial Officer of the Company in October 2015. Between March 2005 and January 2014, he served as Chief Financial Officer of the Company and, from October 2009 to January 2014, also as Chief Administrative Officer of the Company. He previously served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Wells Fargo, Midwest Banking Group, from April 2001 to March 2005. Andrew J. Iseman

&#160; 51 &#160; Mr. Iseman joined Scout as Chief Executive Officer in August 2010. From February 2009 to June 2010, he served as Chief Operating Officer of RK Capital Management. He was previously employed by Janus Capital Group from January 2003 to April 2008, most recently serving as its Executive Vice President from January 2008 to April 2008 and also as its Chief Operating Officer from May 2007 to April 2008. Shannon A. Johnson

&#160; 36 &#160; Ms. Johnson has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of the Company since April of 2015. Ms. Johnson&#146;s previous positions with the Company include Senior Vice President, Executive Director of Talent Management and Development, and Senior Vice President, Director of Talent Management. Ms. Johnson held these positions from May 2011 to April 2015, and December 2009 to May 2011, respectively. J. Mariner Kemper

&#160; 43 &#160; Mr. Kemper has served as the President of the Company since November 2015 and as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since May 2004. He served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Bank between December 2012 and January 2014, and as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of UMB Bank Colorado, n.a. (a prior subsidiary of the Company) between 2000 and 2012. He was President of UMB Bank Colorado from 1997 to 2000. Mr. Kemper is the brother of Mr. Alexander C. Kemper, who currently serves on the Company&#146;s Board of Directors. David D. Kling

&#160; 67 &#160; Mr. Kling served as Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of the Company from October 2008 until December 2015. From November 2007 until October 2008, he served as the Executive Vice President for Enterprise Services of the Bank. He also served as Executive Vice President of Financial Services and Support of the Bank from 1997 to 2007. &#160;

Kevin M. Macke

&#160; 43 &#160; Mr. Macke has served as Executive Vice President and Director of Operations for the Bank since November of 2015. In addition, beginning in January of 2014 and ending in December of 2015, Mr. Macke served as the Chief Financial Officer of the Bank. Prior to this time, Mr. Macke held several other positions within the Company or the Bank, including Director of Strategic Technology Initiatives with the Bank from November 2010 to January 2014, and Director of Financial Planning and Analysis with the Company from August 2005 to November 2010. Jennifer M. Payne

&#160; 39 &#160; Ms. Payne was named as Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of the Company in January 2016. Prior to this time, she served the Company as Director of Corporate Risk Services and Director of Corporate Audit Services, from May 2012 to December 2015, and August 2005 to May 2012, respectively. Scott A. Stengel

&#160; 44 &#160; Mr. Stengel has served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company and the Bank since January 2014. He joined the Company as Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel in April 2013 after practicing law in Washington D.C., as a partner with King &#38; Spalding LLP from 2011 to 2013 and as a partner with Orrick, Herrington &#38; Sutcliffe LLP from 2005 to 2011. Christian R. Swett

&#160; 60 &#160; Mr. Swett has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer of the Company since January 2011. Prior to this, Mr. Swett was an Executive Vice President. Thomas S. Terry

&#160; 52 &#160; Mr. Terry has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Lending Officer of the Company since January 2011. Prior to this time, Mr. Terry served as Executive Vice President. Brian J. Walker

&#160; 44 &#160; Mr. Walker has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of the Company since January 2014 and June 2007, respectively. He previously served as Chief Financial Officer of the Company from January 2014 to October 2015. From July 2004 to June 2007, he served as a Certified Public Accountant for KPMG LLP, where he worked primarily as an auditor for financial institutions. He worked as a Certified Public Accountant for Deloitte &#38; Touche LLP from November 2002 to July 2004. The Company makes available free of charge on its website at www.umb.com/investor, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files or furnishes such material with or to the SEC. 

