 Item 1. Business 

General 

We are a leading lifestyle specialty retail company that operates under the Urban Outfitters, Anthropologie, Free People, Terrain and Bhldn brands. We also operate a Wholesale segment under the Free People brand. We have over 45 years of experience creating and managing retail stores that offer highly differentiated collections of fashion apparel, accessories and home goods in inviting and dynamic store settings. Our core strategy is to provide unified environments that establish emotional bonds with the customer. In addition to our retail stores, we offer our products and market our brands directly to the consumer through our e-commerce websites, mobile applications and our catalogs. We have achieved compounded annual sales growth of approximately 9% over the past five years, with sales of approximately $3.4 billion during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2016. 

We opened our first Urban Outfitters store in 1970 near the University of Pennsylvania campus in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and were incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1976. The first Anthropologie store opened in a suburb of Philadelphia in October 1992. We started doing business in Europe in June 1998, with our first European Urban Outfitters store located in London. We opened our first Free 

&#160; 

People store in the Garden State Plaza Mall in Paramus, New Jersey in November 2002. We opened our first Terrain garden center in Glen Mills, Pennsylvania in April 2008. We opened our first European Anthropologie store in London in October 2009. In August 2011, we opened our first Bhldn store in Houston, Texas. 

In 1984 we established the Free People wholesale division to develop, in conjunction with Urban Outfitters, private label apparel lines of young women&#146;s casual wear that could be effectively sold at attractive prices in Urban Outfitters stores. 

In February 2016, we acquired substantially all of the assets of the Vetri Family group of restaurants. 

Our omni-channel strategy enhances our customers&#146; brand experience by providing a seamless approach to the customer shopping experience. We have substantially integrated all available shopping channels, including stores, websites (online and through mobile devices) and catalogs. Our investments in areas such as marketing campaigns and technology advancements are designed to generate demand for the omni-channel and not the separate store or direct-to-consumer channels. Store sales are primarily fulfilled from that store&#146;s inventory, but may also be shipped from any of our fulfillment centers or from a different store location if an item is not available at the original store. Direct-to-consumer orders are primarily shipped to our customers through our fulfillment centers, but may also be shipped from any store, or a combination of fulfillment centers and stores depending on the availability of a particular item. Direct-to-consumer orders may also be picked up at a store location. Customers may also return certain merchandise purchased through direct-to-consumer channels at retail locations. As our customers continue to shop across multiple channels, we have adapted our approach towards meeting this demand. Due to the availability of like product in a variety of shopping channels, we now source these products utilizing single stock keeping units (&#147;SKUs&#148;) based on the omni-channel demand rather than the demand of the separate channels. These and other technological capabilities allow us to better serve our customers and help us complete sales that otherwise may not have occurred due to out-of-stock positions. As a result of changing customer behavior and the substantial integration of the operations of our store and direct-to-consumer channels, we manage and analyze our performance based on a single omni-channel rather than separate channels and believe that the omni-channel results present the most meaningful and appropriate measure of our performance. 

Our fiscal year ends on January 31. All references to our fiscal years refer to the fiscal years ended on January 31 in those years. For example, our fiscal 2016 ended on January 31, 2016. 

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our investor relations website, www.urbanoutfittersinc.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC. We will voluntarily provide electronic or paper copies (other than exhibits) of our filings free of charge upon written request. You may also obtain any materials we file with, or furnish to, the SEC on its website at www.sec.gov. 

Retail Segment 

Urban Outfitters. Urban Outfitters targets young adults aged 18 to 28 through its unique merchandise mix and compelling store and website environment. We have established a reputation 

&#160; 

with these young adults, who are culturally sophisticated, self-expressive and concerned with acceptance by their peer group. The product offering includes women&#146;s and men&#146;s fashion apparel, intimates, footwear, beauty and accessories, home goods, activewear and gear, electronics, as well as an eclectic mix of apartment wares and gifts. Apartment wares range from rugs, pillows and shower curtains to books, candles and novelties. Stores average approximately 9,000 square feet of selling space. The brand offers an estimated 70,000 to 75,000 SKUs across the Retail segment. Our stores are located in large metropolitan areas, select university communities, specialty centers and enclosed malls. Our stores accommodate our customers&#146; propensity not only to shop, but also to congregate with their peers. 

As of January 31, 2016, we operated 240 Urban Outfitters stores, of which 179 were located in the United States, 18 were located in Canada and 43 were located in Europe. We plan to open approximately five Urban Outfitters stores, globally, in fiscal 2017. Urban Outfitters operates websites in North America and Europe that capture the spirit of the brand by offering a similar yet broader selection of merchandise as found in our stores. Urban Outfitters offers a catalog in Europe offering select merchandise, most of which is also available in our Urban Outfitters stores. Urban Outfitters&#146; North American and European Retail segment net sales accounted for approximately 32.5% and 8.0% of consolidated net sales, respectively, for fiscal 2016. 

Anthropologie Group. The Anthropologie Group consists of the Anthropologie, Bhldn and Terrain brands. We initially operated the Bhldn and Terrain brands as standalone concepts and opened two Bhldn stores and two Terrain garden centers. We ultimately determined that the Bhldn and Terrain brands were complementary to the Anthropologie brand and integrated those brands into the Anthropologie Group during fiscal 2015 and 2016, respectively. 

The Anthropologie brand tailors its merchandise and inviting store environment to sophisticated and contemporary women aged 28 to 45. The Anthropologie brand&#146;s unique and eclectic product assortment includes women&#146;s casual apparel and accessories, intimates, shoes, beauty, home furnishings and a diverse array of gifts and decorative items. The home furnishings range from furniture, rugs, lighting and antiques to table top items, bedding and gifts. The brand offers registry services through our website and mobile applications and in all of our stores throughout the United States, allowing our customers to create gift registries for any occasion. The Anthropologie brand also offers catalogs in North America and Europe that market select merchandise, most of which is also available in our Anthropologie brand stores. 

The Bhldn brand emphasizes every element that contributes to a wedding. The brand offers a curated collection of heirloom quality wedding gowns, bridesmaid frocks, party dresses, assorted jewelry, headpieces, footwear, lingerie and decorations. In addition to the two standalone Bhldn stores, we operate shop-within-shop locations within our Anthropologie brand stores that offer a comparable product assortment to our Bhldn stores and website. 

The Terrain brand is designed to appeal to women and men interested in a creative, sophisticated outdoor living and gardening experience. Terrain&#146;s product offering includes lifestyle home and garden products combined with antiques, live plants, flowers, wellness products and accessories. Both Terrain garden centers also offer a full service restaurant and coffee bar. 

As of January 31, 2016, we operated 218 Anthropologie Group stores, of which 197 were located in the United States, 12 were located in Canada and nine were located in Europe. Stores average 

&#160; 

approximately 7,000 square feet of selling space. The Anthropologie Group offers an estimated 80,000 to 85,000 SKUs across the Retail segment. Our stores are located in specialty retail centers, upscale street locations and enclosed malls. We plan to open approximately ten Anthropologie Group stores, globally, in fiscal 2017. The Anthropologie Group operates websites in North America and Europe that capture the spirit of its brands by offering a similar yet broader selection of merchandise as found in our stores. The Anthropologie Group&#146;s North American and European Retail segment net sales accounted for approximately 40.2% and 1.6% of consolidated net sales, respectively, for fiscal 2016. 

Free People. Our Free People retail stores primarily offer private label branded merchandise targeted to young contemporary women aged 25 to 30. Free People offers a unique merchandise mix of casual women&#146;s apparel, intimates, shoes, accessories, activewear, home products and gifts. Free People retail stores average approximately 1,800 square feet of selling space. The brand offers an estimated 20,000 to 25,000 SKUs across the Retail segment. Our stores are located in enclosed malls, upscale street locations and specialty retail centers. The retail channels of Free People expose both our wholesale accounts and retail customers to the full Free People product assortment and store environment. 

As of January 31, 2016, we operated 114 Free People stores, of which 109 were located in the United States and five were located in Canada. We plan to open approximately 12 new Free People stores in fiscal 2017. Free People operates websites in North America, Europe and Asia that capture the spirit of the brand by offering a similar yet broader selection of merchandise as found in our stores, as well as substantially all of the Free People wholesale offerings. Free People also offers a catalog offering select merchandise, most of which is also available in our Free People stores. Free People&#146;s Retail segment net sales accounted for approximately 10.1% of consolidated net sales for fiscal 2016. 

Wholesale Segment 

The Free People wholesale division was established in 1984 to develop, in conjunction with Urban Outfitters, private label apparel lines of young women&#146;s casual wear that could be effectively sold at attractive prices in Urban Outfitters stores. In order to achieve minimum production lots, Free People wholesale began selling to other retailers throughout the United States. We distribute our Free People products in certain department stores using a shop-within-shop sales model. We believe that the shop-within-shop model allows for a more complete merchandising of our Free People products and will give us greater freedom in differentiating the presentation of our products and further strengthening of our brand image. During fiscal 2016, Free People&#146;s range of tops, bottoms, sweaters, dresses, intimates, shoes and activewear were sold through approximately 1,800 better department and specialty stores worldwide, including Macy&#146;s, Nordstrom, Bloomingdale&#146;s, Lord &#38; Taylor, Selfridge&#146;s, and our own Free People stores. We monitor the styles and products that are popular with our wholesale customers to give us insight into current fashion trends, helping us to better serve our retail customers. Free People wholesale sales and showroom facilities are located in New York City, Los Angeles, Chicago and London. Free People&#146;s wholesale sales accounted for approximately 7.6% of consolidated net sales for fiscal 2016. 

Store Environment 

We create a unified environment in our stores that establishes an emotional bond with the customer. Every element of the environment is tailored to the aesthetic preferences of our target customers. Through creative design, much of the existing retail space is modified to incorporate a 

&#160; 

mosaic of fixtures, finishes and revealed architectural details. In our stores, merchandise is integrated into a variety of creative vignettes and displays designed to offer our customers an entire look at a distinct lifestyle. This dynamic visual merchandising and display technique provides the connection among the store design, the merchandise and the customer. Essential components of the ambiance of each store may include playing music that appeals to our target customers, using unique signage and employing a staff that understands and identifies with the target customer. 

Our Urban Outfitters, Anthropologie, and Free People stores are primarily located in upscale street locations, enclosed malls, and specialty retail centers. Our two Terrain garden centers are both free-standing locations. Our Bhldn stores are located in a specialty retail center and an upscale street location. We plan to implement a store location expansion strategy in fiscal 2017 similar to our strategy in fiscal 2016. 

Buying and Design Operations 

Maintaining a constant flow of fashionable merchandise for our Retail segment is critically important to our ongoing performance. We maintain our own buying groups that select and develop products to satisfy our target customers and provide us with the appropriate amount and timing of products offered. Merchandise managers may supervise several buyers and assistant buyers. Our buyers stay in touch with the evolving tastes of their target customers by shopping at major trade markets, attending national and regional trade shows and staying current with mass media influences, including social media, music, video, film, magazines and pop culture. 

Merchandise 

Our Urban Outfitters stores, websites and mobile applications offer a wide array of eclectic merchandise, including women&#146;s and men&#146;s fashion apparel, intimates, footwear, beauty and accessories, home goods, activewear and gear, electronics, as well as an eclectic mix of apartment wares and gifts. Our Anthropologie stores, websites, mobile applications and catalog product offerings include women&#146;s casual apparel and accessories, intimates, shoes, beauty, home furnishings and a diverse array of gifts and decorative items. Our Bhldn retail stores, shop-within-shop locations and website offer a curated collection of heirloom quality wedding gowns, bridesmaid frocks, party dresses, jewelry, headpieces, footwear, lingerie and decorations. Our Terrain garden centers and website product offerings include home furnishings and decorative items, garden products including live plants and flowers, outdoor living furnishings and entertainment products and a wide variety of gifts. Our Free People retail stores, websites, mobile applications and catalogs offer a showcase for casual women&#146;s apparel, intimates, shoes, accessories, activewear, home products and gifts. Our merchandise is continuously updated to appeal to our target customers&#146; changing tastes and is supplied by a large number of domestic and foreign vendors, with new shipments of merchandise arriving at our stores and fulfillment centers almost daily. 

The wide breadth of merchandise offered by our Retail segment includes a combination of national third-party brands, as well as exclusive merchandise developed and designed internally by our brands. This combination allows us to offer fashionable merchandise and to differentiate our product mix from that of traditional department stores, as well as that of other specialty and direct-to-consumer retailers. Merchandise designed and developed by our brands generally yields higher gross profit margins than third-party branded merchandise, and helps to keep our product offerings current and unique. 

&#160; 

The ever-changing mix of products available to our customers allows us to adapt our merchandise to prevailing fashion trends, and together with the inviting atmosphere and experience of our stores and websites, encourages our core customers to visit our shopping channels frequently. 

We select price points for our merchandise that are consistent with the spending patterns of our target customers. As such, our stores carry merchandise at a wide range of price points that may vary considerably within product categories. 

Store Operations 

We have organized our retail store operations by brand into geographic areas or districts that each have a district manager. District managers are responsible for several stores and monitor and supervise individual store managers. Each store manager is responsible for overseeing the daily operations of one of our stores. In addition to a store manager, the staff of a typical store includes a combination of some or all of the following positions: a visual manager, several department managers and full and part-time sales and visual staff. The staff of a typical Anthropologie store may also include a customer care manager who helps tailor the shopping experience to the needs of Anthropologie&#146;s target customers. The staff of a Bhldn location may also include a bridal and event manager, appointment stylist and a category specialist. A Terrain garden center may also include merchandise care and maintenance staff. 

An essential requirement for the success of our stores is our ability to attract, train and retain talented, highly motivated store managers, visual managers and other key employees. In addition to management training programs for both newly hired and existing employees, we have a number of retention programs that offer qualitative and quantitative performance-based incentives to district-level managers, store managers and full-time sales associates. 

Marketing and Promotion 

We believe we have highly effective marketing tools in our websites, mobile applications, catalogs, email campaigns and social media. We refresh this media as frequently as daily to reflect the most cutting edge changes in fashion and culture. We also believe that highly visible store locations, broad merchandise selection and creative and visual presentation within our stores, on our websites and on our mobile applications are key enticements for customers to explore these channels and purchase merchandise. Consequently, we rely on these enticements, as well as the brand recognition created by our direct marketing activities, to draw customers to our omni-channel operations, rather than traditional forms of advertising such as print, radio and television media. Marketing activities for each of our retail store concepts may include special event promotions and a variety of public relations activities designed to create community awareness of our stores and products. We also are active in social media and blogs. We believe that the traditional method of a one-way communication to customers is no longer enough. We believe that by starting a conversation and interacting directly with our customers, most notably via Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest, Instagram and our own mobile applications, we are more effective at understanding and serving their fashion needs. We also believe that our blogs continue this conversation. Not only do our blogs allow us to communicate what inspires us, they allow our customers to tell us what inspires them. This fosters our relationships with our customers and encourages them to continue shopping with us. 

During fiscal 2016, we circulated approximately 29.2 million catalogs across multiple brands. We plan for our catalog circulation to remain consistent in fiscal 2017. 

&#160; 

Suppliers 

To serve our target customers and to recognize changes in fashion trends and seasonality, we purchase merchandise from numerous foreign and domestic vendors. We also have arrangements with agents and third party manufacturers to produce our private label merchandise. To the extent that our vendors are located overseas or, in the case of third-party vendors, rely on overseas sources for a large portion of their merchandise, any event causing a disruption of imports, such as the imposition of increased security or regulatory requirements applicable to imported goods, war, public health concerns, acts of terrorism, natural disasters, port security considerations or labor disputes, financial or political instability in any of the countries in which merchandise we purchase is manufactured, trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas, or both, disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials, increases in the cost of fuel or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could adversely affect our business. During fiscal 2016, we purchased merchandise from approximately 5,000 vendors. No single vendor or manufacturer accounted for more than 10% of merchandise purchased during that time. While certain of our vendors have limited financial resources and production capabilities, we do not believe that the loss of any one vendor would have a material adverse effect on our business. 

Company Operations 

Distribution. We own a 291,000 square foot distribution facility in Gap, Pennsylvania that receives and distributes approximately half of our retail store merchandise in North America. We also lease a 214,500 square foot distribution center located in Reno, Nevada, that receives and distributes the remaining half of our retail store merchandise. 

In June 2015, we opened a new 1,000,000 square foot fulfillment center in Gap, Pennsylvania, which we own and operate. Operations at the center include direct-to-consumer and wholesale fulfillment services, including inventory warehousing, receiving and customer shipping. We lease a 459,000 square foot fulfillment center in Trenton, South Carolina. This facility currently services a portion of our Wholesale segment customer orders and processes all of our Wholesale segment returns. In fiscal 2016, we transitioned all of the Retail segment fulfillment operations and a portion of the Wholesale segment operations from this location to our new facility in Gap, Pennsylvania. We plan to transition the remaining Wholesale segment operations to our new facility and close the Trenton facility when the lease expires in fiscal 2017. 

We own a 463,000 square foot fulfillment center located in Reno, Nevada. This facility is used primarily to house and distribute merchandise to our western United States direct-to-consumer customers, significantly improving our fulfillment capability. The facility also includes a data center. 

We lease distribution and fulfillment facilities each located in Rushden, England. Our 98,000 square foot distribution facility supports our entire European store base and our 142,000 square foot fulfillment facility supports our European direct-to-consumer channel. We believe both of these facilities will support our European operations for the next several years. 

Information Systems. Very early in our growth, we recognized the need for high-quality information in order to manage merchandise planning, buying, inventory management and control functions. We invested in a retail software package that met our processing and reporting requirements. We utilize point-of-sale register systems connected by a secure data network to our 

&#160; 

home offices. Additionally, our stores have mobile point-of-sale devices that have virtually the same functionality as our cash registers. These systems provide for register efficiencies, timely customer checkout and instant back office access to register information, as well as daily updates of sales, inventory data and price changes. Our direct-to-consumer channel, which includes our retail websites and catalogs, maintains separate software systems that manage the merchandise and customer information for our in-house customer contact center and fulfillment functions. Our Wholesale segment uses a separate software system for customer service, order entry, production planning and inventory management. We have a second fully redundant data center located in our Reno fulfillment center that functions as a disaster recovery site for our direct-to-consumer, data communication and other business critical systems. 

Competition 

Our Retail and Wholesale segments compete with individual and chain fashion specialty stores as well as department stores, both in stores and online, in highly competitive domestic and international markets. Our Retail segment competes on the basis of, among other things, the location of our stores; website, mobile application and catalog presentation; website design; the breadth, quality, style, price and availability of merchandise and the level of customer service offered. Although we believe that the eclectic mix of products and the unique store and website experiences offered by our Retail segment help differentiate us, it also means that our stores compete against a wide variety of smaller, independent specialty retailers, as well as department stores and national specialty chains. Many of our competitors have substantially greater name recognition as well as financial, marketing and other resources. Our Anthropologie, Free People and Bhldn stores also face competition from small boutiques that offer an individualized shopping experience similar to the one we strive to provide to our target customers. In addition, some of our third party vendors offer products directly to consumers and certain of our competitors. 

Along with certain Retail segment competitive factors noted above, other key factors for our direct-to-consumer channel include the effectiveness of our merchandise delivery, website and mobile application availability and customer lists. Our direct-to-consumer channel competes against numerous websites and catalogs, which may have a greater volume of circulation and web traffic or more effective marketing through online media and social networking sites. 

Our Wholesale segment competes with numerous wholesale companies on the basis of quality, price and fashion of our merchandise offerings. Many of our Wholesale segment competitors have a wider product distribution network. In addition, certain of our wholesale competitors have greater name recognition and greater financial, marketing and other resources than us. 

Trademarks and Service Marks 

We are the registered owner in the United States of certain service marks and trademarks, including, but not limited to &#147;Urban Outfitters,&#148; &#147;Anthropologie,&#148; &#147;Free People,&#148; &#147;Bhldn,&#148; &#147;Terrain,&#148; &#147;Vetri,&#148; &#147;BDG,&#148; &#147;Ecote,&#148; &#147;FP Me,&#148; &#147;Intimately Free People,&#148; &#147;Pizzeria Vetri,&#148; &#147;Pure + Good,&#148; &#147;Urban Renewal,&#148; &#147;Urbn.com,&#148; and &#147;We The Free.&#148; Each mark is renewable indefinitely, contingent upon continued use at the time of renewal. In addition, we currently have pending registration applications with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office covering certain other marks. We also own marks that have been registered in foreign countries, and have applications for marks pending in 

&#160; 

additional foreign countries. We regard our marks as important to our business due to their name recognition with our customers. We are not aware of any valid claims of infringement or challenges to our right to use any of our marks in the United States. 

Employees 

As of January 31, 2016, we employed approximately 24,000 people, approximately 39% of whom were full-time employees. The number of part-time employees fluctuates depending on seasonal needs. Of our total employees, approximately 1% work in the Wholesale segment and the remaining 99% work in our Retail segment. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we believe that our relations with our employees are excellent. 

Financial Information about Operations 

We aggregate our operations into two reportable segments, the Retail segment and the Wholesale segment. See Note 15, &#147;Segment Reporting,&#148; in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Financial Information about Geographical Areas 

See Note 15, &#147;Segment Reporting,&#148; in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding net sales and long-lived assets from domestic and foreign operations. 

Seasonality 

Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations in net sales and operating income, with a more significant portion typically realized in the fourth quarter of each year reflecting the year-end holiday period. Historically, and consistent with the retail industry, this seasonality also impacts our working capital requirements, particularly with regard to inventory. See Item 7: Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;Seasonality and Quarterly Results for additional information. 

&#160; 

