 ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Back to Table of Contents 

General Background 

USA Equities Corp, (f/k/a American Biogenetic Sciences, Inc.) , a Delaware corporation, is sometimes referred to herein as &#34;we&#34;, &#34;us&#34;, &#34;our&#34;, &#34;Company&#34; and the &#34;Registrant&#34;. The Company's Board of Directors approved the name change from American Biogenetic Sciences, Inc. to USA Equities Corp on May 29, 2015. The Registrant was formed in 1983 for the purpose of researching, developing and marketing cardiovascular and neurobiology products for commercial development and distributing vaccines. The Registrant's products were designed for in vitro and in vivo diagnostic procedures and therapeutic drugs, and its products had been identified for use in the treatment of epilepsy, migraine and mania, neurodegenerative diseases, coronary artery diseases and cancer. The Registrant commenced selling its products during the last quarter of 1997 but did not generate any sufficient revenues from operations to fund its operating expenses. 

On September 19, 2002, the Registrant filed a petition under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of New York. On November 4, 2005, the Bankruptcy Court approved an order authorizing a change in control and provided that the Company, subsequent to the bankruptcy proceeding, is free and clear of all liens, claims and other obligations. 

On August 13, 2010, the Registrant's sole officer/director, who was also the principal shareholder, transferred and assigned his controlling stock position to an unrelated third party but remained as the Registrant's sole officer and director. On December 31, 2013, a convertible note payable to our sole officer/director was formally assigned to our controlling shareholder. See Note 5 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

On May 27, 2015, the board of directors of the Registrant appointed Mr. Troy Grogan to the Registrant's board of directors and, at the same time, appointed Mr. Grogan to serve as the Registrant's chief financial officer. Mr. Grogan has been a principal shareholder of the Registrant since August 2010. Prior to Mr. Grogan's appointment, Mr. Richard Rubin had been the Registrant's sole executive officer and director. Mr. Rubin will continue to serve as the Registrant's chief executive officer and as chairman of the board of directors. 

Potential Business Prospects of the Registrant 

On April 17, 2015, the Company organized a wholly-owned Delaware subsidiary, USA Equity Trust, Inc. (the &#34;Subsidiary&#34;) , for the purpose of acquiring real estate. 

On July 31, 2015, the Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, USA Equities Trust, Inc., entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with an unaffiliated third party, Green US Builders, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the &#34;Seller&#34;) for the purchase of a mixed-use investment property located in Bridgeport, CT consisting of five retail stores and five apartments (the &#34;Property&#34;). At the end of October, the parties decided to rescind the transaction because of the inability to fulfill certain representations regarding the status of the property. The Seller, who was issued 2.4 million shares in consideration for the asset, is negotiating with the Company to replace the asset with a property of equal value. The shares were valued at $0.27 per share or $648,000, the closing bid at July 31, 2015. On February 1, 2016, the Company and the Seller entered into an Amended Asset Purchase Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Form 10-K, pursuant to which the Company and Seller agreed: (i) to use their best efforts to conclude the a new asset purchase agreement by which the Seller shall transfer and assign all right, title and business to a replacement property on or before March 31, 2016, subject to a ninety (90) day extension; and/or (ii) renegotiate the share consideration issued in the July 31, 2015 transaction.

Investing in Real Property 

We plan to invest in properties net leased to creditworthy tenants. When evaluating prospective investments in real property, our management will consider relevant real estate and financial factors, including the location of the property, the leases and other agreements affecting the property, the creditworthiness of major tenants, its income-producing capacity, its physical condition, its prospects for appreciation, its prospects for liquidity, tax considerations and other factors. In this regard, we will have substantial discretion with respect to the selection of specific investments, subject to board approval. 

There is no limitation on the number, size or type of properties that we may acquire. The number and mix of properties depend upon real estate market conditions and other circumstances existing at the time of acquisition of properties. 

General Business Objectives of the Registrant

The Registrant has no present operations and has determined to direct its efforts and limited resources to pursue acquisitions and/or effect a business combination, principally in incoming producing real estate.

&#160; Current trends

Management believes that as a result of the relative uncertainty in the United States equity markets over the past years, many privately-held companies have been closed off from the public market and traditional IPOs. During the past few years, many privately-held as well as public companies attempted to divest non-core assets and divisions and valuations of these assets and divisions have often decreased significantly. Therefore, Management believes that there are substantial business opportunities to effect attractive acquisitions. As a public entity with its shares of common stock registered under the Exchange Act and publicly trading, Management believes to be well positioned to identify target acquisitions and to effect a business combination in order to take advantage of these current trends.

&#160; Effecting a business combination

Prospective purchasers of the Registrant's common stock will invest in the Company without an opportunity to evaluate the specific merits or risks of any acquisition target or any one or more business combinations. A business combination may involve the acquisition of, or merger with, a company which needs to raise substantial additional capital by means of being a publicly traded company, while avoiding what it may deem to be the adverse consequences of undertaking an initial public offering itself. These include time delays, significant expense, loss of voting control and compliance with various Federal and state securities laws. A potential business combination may involve a company which may be financially unstable or in its early stages of development or growth.

&#160; Sources of target businesses

The Registrant anticipates that target business candidates will be brought to our attention from various sources, including broker-dealers, investment bankers, venture capitalists, bankers and other members of the financial community who may present solicited or unsolicited proposals. While we do not presently anticipate engaging the services of professional firms that specialize in business acquisitions on any formal basis, we may engage these firms in the future, in which event we may pay a finder's fee or other compensation. In no event, however, will we pay Management any finder's fee or other compensation for services rendered to us prior to or in connection with the consummation of a business combination.

&#160; Selection of a target business and structuring of a business combination

In evaluating a prospective target business, our Management will consider, among other factors, the following:

- financial condition and results of operation of the target company; - growth potential; - experience and skill of management and availability of additional personnel; - capital requirements; - competitive position; - stage of development of the products, processes or services; - degree of current or potential market acceptance of the products, processes or services; - proprietary features and degree of intellectual property or other protection of the products, processes or services; - regulatory environment of the industry; and - costs associated with effecting the business combination.

These criteria are not intended to be exhaustive. Any evaluation relating to the merits of a particular business combination will be based, to the extent relevant, on the above factors as well as other considerations deemed relevant by our Management in effecting a business combination consistent with our business objective. In evaluating a prospective target business, we will conduct a due diligence review which may encompass, among other things, meetings with incumbent management and inspection of facilities, as well as review of financial and other information which will be made available to us.

The time and costs required to select and evaluate a target business and to structure and complete the business combination cannot presently be ascertained with any degree of certainty. Any costs incurred with respect to the identification and evaluation of a prospective target business with which a business combination is not ultimately completed will result in a loss to us.

&#160; Probable lack of business diversification

We may seek to effect business combinations with more than one target business, it is probable that we will have the ability to effect only a single business combination. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be entirely dependent upon the future performance of a single business. Unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations with entities operating in multiple industries or multiple areas of a single industry, it is probable that we will not have the resources to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses. By consummating a business combination with only a single entity, our lack of diversification may:

- subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination; and - result in our dependency upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services.

&#160; Limited ability to evaluate the target business' management

Although we intend to closely scrutinize the management of a prospective target business when evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of the target business' management will prove to be correct. In addition, we cannot assure you that the future management will have the necessary skills, qualifications or abilities to manage a public company intending to embark on a program of business development. Furthermore, the future role of our directors, if any, in the target business cannot presently be stated with any certainty. While it is possible that our sole director will remain associated in some capacity with us following a business combination, it is unlikely that he will devote their full efforts to our affairs subsequent to a business combination. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our director will have significant experience or knowledge relating to the operations of the particular target business. 

Following a business combination, we may seek to recruit additional managers to supplement the incumbent management of the target business. We cannot assure you that we will have the ability to recruit additional managers, or that additional manager will have the requisite skills, knowledge or experience necessary to enhance the incumbent management. 

Competition

In identifying, evaluating and selecting a target business, we expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than the Registrant and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe there are numerous potential target businesses that may be interested in effecting a business combination with a current, reporting public company, Management believes that we may have only very limited ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses because of our limited available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of a target business. Further, any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. Our management believes, however, that our status as a public entity and potential access to the United States public equity markets may give us a competitive advantage over privately-held entities having a similar business objective as us in acquiring a target business with significant growth potential on favorable terms. 

If we succeed in effecting a business combination, there will be, in all likelihood, intense competition from competitors of the target business. In particular, certain industries which experience rapid growth frequently attract an increasingly larger number of competitors, including competitors with increasingly greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources than the initial competitors in the industry. The degree of competition characterizing the industry of any prospective target business cannot presently be ascertained. We cannot assure you that, subsequent to a business combination, we will have the resources to compete effectively, especially to the extent that the target business is in a high-growth industry.

Employees

Richard Rubin, is our chief executive officer and Mr. Troy Grogan is our chief financial officer. Mr. Rubin and Mr. Grogan are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours per week and intend to spend only as much time as they deem reasonably necessary to the Company's affairs. The amount of time they will devote in any time period will vary based on the availability of suitable target businesses to evaluate. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination.

Conflicts of Interest

The Company's Management is not required to commit its full time to the Company's affairs. As a result, pursuing new business opportunities may require a greater period of time than if Management would devote his full time to the Company's affairs. Management is not precluded from serving as officer or director of any other entity that is engaged in business activities similar to those of the Registrant. In the future, Management may become associated or affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those we intend to conduct. In such event, Management may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. In the event that the Company's Management has multiple business affiliations, it may have legal obligations to present certain business opportunities to multiple entities. In the event that a conflict of interest shall arise, Management will consider factors such as reporting status, availability of audited financial statements, current capitalization and the laws of the jurisdictions of the target entities. If several business opportunities or operating entities approach Management with respect to a business combination, Management will consider the foregoing factors as well as the preferences of the incumbent management of the operating company. However, Management will act in what it believes will be in the best interests of the shareholders of the Registrant. The Registrant shall not enter into a transaction with a target business that is affiliated with Management.

Periodic Reporting and Audited Financial Statements

We have registered our securities under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and have reporting obligations, including the requirement that we file annual and quarterly reports with the SEC. In accordance with the requirements of the Exchange Act, our annual reports will contain financial statements audited and reported on by our independent public accountants.

We will not acquire a target business if audited financial statements cannot be obtained for the target business. Our Management believes that the requirement of having available audited financial statements for the target business will limit the pool of potential target businesses available for acquisition.

