 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

United Therapeutics Corporation is a biotechnology company focused on the development and commercialization of innovative products to address the unmet medical needs of patients with chronic and life-threatening diseases. 

Our key therapeutic products and product candidates include: 

&#149; Prostacyclin Analogues. Prostacyclin analogues are stable synthetic forms of prostacyclin, an important molecule produced by the body that has powerful effects on blood vessel health and function. Our lead product is Remodulin&#174; (treprostinil) Injection (Remodulin), which is administered subcutaneously (under the skin) or intravenously (in the vein) for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) to diminish symptoms associated with exercise. The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Remodulin for subcutaneous and intravenous administration in 2002 and 2004, respectively. Outside the United States, Remodulin is approved in 39 countries, most of which have approved both routes of administration. We are developing new technologies to make Remodulin delivery more convenient, such as implantable pump systems for intravenous Remodulin and pre-filled, semi-disposable pumps for subcutaneous Remodulin. In 2009, the FDA approved Tyvaso&#174; (treprostinil) Inhalation Solution (Tyvaso), an inhaled prostacyclin therapy for the treatment of PAH. In December 2013, the FDA approved Orenitram&#174; (treprostinil) Extended-Release Tablets (Orenitram), an oral prostacyclin analogue for the treatment of PAH, which commenced sales during the second quarter of 2014. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Lung Biotechnology PBC, is developing another oral prostacyclin analogue for the treatment of PAH called esuberaprost. &#149; Phosphodiesterase Type 5 (PDE-5) Inhibitor. PDE-5 inhibitors act to inhibit the degradation of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cyclic GMP) in cells. Cyclic GMP is activated by nitric oxide (NO), a naturally occurring substance in the body that mediates the relaxation of vascular smooth muscle. Our PDE-5 inhibitor is Adcirca&#174; (tadalafil) tablets (Adcirca), a once-daily oral therapy for the treatment of PAH. We acquired exclusive U.S. commercialization rights to Adcirca from Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly) in 2008. In 2009, the FDA approved Adcirca for the treatment of PAH. &#149; Monoclonal Antibody (MAb). MAbs are antibodies that bind to cancerous tumors and destroy the cancer cells through a mechanism called antibody-dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity. In March 2015, the FDA approved Unituxin&#174; (dinutuximab) Injection (Unituxin), in combination with granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), interleukin-2 (IL-2), and 13-cis-retinoic acid (RA), for the treatment of pediatric patients with high-risk neuroblastoma who achieve at least a partial response to prior first-line multiagent, multimodality therapy. We commenced U.S. sales of Unituxin in the third quarter of 2015. We received European Commission approval during the third quarter of 2015, and plan to commence commercial sales in individual European countries following pricing and reimbursement approvals on a country-by-country basis. During the fourth quarter of 2015, we sold the rights to our glycobiology antiviral platform under terms that entitle us to milestone and royalty payments from the buyer in the event the program is successful. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2015, we terminated our license agreement with Pluristem Ltd. (Pluristem) relating to the development of a cell-based product for the treatment of PAH using Pluristem's PLacental eXpanded (PLX) cells. 

We generate revenues from sales of Remodulin, Tyvaso, Adcirca, Orenitram and Unituxin (which we refer to as our commercial products). We commenced sales of Orenitram and Unituxin during the second quarter of 2014 and third quarter of 2015, respectively. We expect that sales of our existing 

commercial products will continue to be our primary sources of revenues for the next several years. Our sales and marketing staff supports the availability of our commercial products in the countries in which they are approved. These efforts are supplemented by contracted distributors. 

Finally, we are engaged in early-stage research and development into a number of organ transplantation-related technologies. 

United Therapeutics was incorporated in Delaware in June 1996. Our principal executive offices are located at 1040 Spring Street, Silver Spring, Maryland 20910 and at 55 T.W. Alexander Drive, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709. 

Unless the context requires otherwise or unless otherwise noted, all references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to "United Therapeutics" and to the "company", "we", "us" or "our" are to United Therapeutics Corporation and its subsidiaries. 

Our Products 

Our product portfolio includes the following: 

Product 

&#160; Mode of Delivery &#160; Indication &#160; Current Status &#160; Our Territory Remodulin &#160; Continuous subcutaneous &#160; PAH &#160; Commercial in the U.S., most of Europe*, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Israel, Japan, Mexico, Peru, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Taiwan and Venezuela &#160; Worldwide Remodulin &#160; Continuous intravenous &#160; PAH &#160; Commercial in the U.S., most of Europe*, Argentina, Canada, China, Israel, Japan, Mexico, Peru, Saudi Arabia, South Korea and Switzerland &#160; Worldwide Tyvaso &#160; Inhaled &#160; PAH &#160; Commercial in the U.S. and Israel &#160; Worldwide Adcirca &#160; Oral &#160; PAH &#160; Commercial in the U.S. &#160; United States Orenitram &#160; Oral &#160; PAH &#160; Commercial in the U.S. &#160; Worldwide Unituxin &#160; Intravenous &#160; High-risk neuroblastoma &#160; Commercial in the U.S.; also approved in Europe &#160; Worldwide Remodulin Implantable System &#160; Continuous intravenous via implantable pump &#160; PAH &#160; Submitted to FDA for approval &#160; United States, United Kingdom, Canada, France, Germany, Italy and Japan 

Product 

&#160; Mode of Delivery &#160; Indication &#160; Current Status &#160; Our Territory Orenitram Combination Therapy &#160; Oral &#160; PAH &#160; Phase III &#160; Worldwide Esuberaprost in Combination with Tyvaso &#160; Oral &#160; PAH &#160; Phase III &#160; North America, Europe, Mexico, South America, Egypt, India, South Africa and Australia Ex-Vivo Lung Perfusion &#160; Pre-transplant service providing extended preservation and assessment of donor lungs &#160; End-stage lung disease &#160; Phase II/III &#160; United States Tyvaso &#160; Inhaled &#160; Pulmonary hypertension associated with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis &#160; Phase II &#160; Worldwide Gene Therapy &#160; Intravenous &#160; PAH &#160; Phase I/II &#160; United States Remodulin &#160; Subcutaneous via pre-filled, semi-disposable pump &#160; PAH &#160; Preclinical &#160; Worldwide 

* We have obtained approval for subcutaneous and intravenous Remodulin in 24 member countries of the European Economic Area (EEA), as well as other non-EEA countries in Europe, and have received pricing approval in most of these countries. 

Products to Treat Cardiopulmonary Diseases 

Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension 

PAH is a life-threatening disease that affects the blood vessels in the lungs and is characterized by increased pressure in the pulmonary arteries, which are the blood vessels leading from the heart to the lungs. The elevated pressure in the pulmonary arteries strains the right side of the heart as it pumps blood to the lungs. This eventually leads to right heart failure and, ultimately, death. PAH is characterized by structural changes in blood vessel walls, aggregation of platelets and alteration of smooth muscle cell function. We believe that PAH affects about 500,000 individuals worldwide. We have seen increases in the number of people diagnosed with the disease, but due to the rarity of the disease and the complexity of diagnosing it, only a small fraction of patients with PAH are being treated. 

Currently, FDA-approved therapies for PAH focus on three distinct molecular pathways that have been implicated in the disease process: the prostacyclin pathway, the NO pathway, and the endothelin (ET) pathway. The classes of drugs that target these three pathways are: 

&#149; Prostacyclin Analogues and IP Prostacyclin Receptor Agonists. Patients with PAH have been shown to have reduced levels of prostacyclin, a naturally occurring substance that relaxes the pulmonary blood vessels, prevents platelet aggregation and inhibits the proliferation of smooth muscle cells in the pulmonary vessels. Therefore, drugs that mimic the action of prostacyclin, known as prostacyclin analogues, are established PAH treatments. Another class of therapy, called IP prostacyclin receptor agonists, has recently been developed recently to address PAH through the prostacyclin pathway. As compared with prostacyclin analogues, which broadly mimic the effect of prostacyclin, IP prostacyclin receptor agonists bind selectively to the IP receptor, one of several prostacyclin receptors. &#149; PDE-5 Inhibitors and Guanylate Cyclase (sGC) Stimulators. Patients with PAH have also been shown to have reduced levels of the enzyme responsible for producing NO, a naturally occurring substance in the body that causes relaxation of the pulmonary blood vessels. NO produces this effect by increasing intracellular levels of cyclic GMP. Therefore, another established therapeutic approach has been to inhibit the degradation of cyclic GMP using drugs known as PDE-5 inhibitors. In addition, sGC is an enzyme found in the endothelial cells and the receptor for NO. When NO binds to sGC, the enzyme enhances production of cyclic GMP. As a result, sGC stimulators are also approved to treat PAH. &#149; Endothelin Receptor Antagonists. PAH patients have also been shown to have elevated levels of endothelin-1, a naturally occurring substance in the body that causes constriction of, and structural changes to, the pulmonary blood vessels. Therefore, another established therapeutic approach has been to block the action of endothelin with drugs that are known as endothelin receptor antagonists (ETRAs). Because any or all of the three pathways may be therapeutic targets in a patient, these classes of drugs are used alone or in combination to treat patients with PAH. We currently market drugs in two of these classes. Remodulin, Tyvaso and Orenitram are prostacyclin analogues, and Adcirca is a PDE-5 inhibitor. 

Remodulin 

One of our lead products for treating PAH is Remodulin, the active pharmaceutical ingredient of which is a prostacyclin analogue known as treprostinil. We sell Remodulin to specialty pharmaceutical distributors in the United States and to pharmaceutical distributors internationally. We recognized approximately $572.8 million, $553.7 million and $491.2 million in Remodulin net product sales, representing 39 percent, 43 percent and 44 percent of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The FDA approved Remodulin as a continuous subcutaneous infusion therapy in 2002, and as a continuous intravenous infusion therapy in 2004. Remodulin is indicated to treat patients with PAH (World Health Organization (WHO) Group 1), which includes multiple etiologies such as idiopathic and heritable PAH, as well as PAH associated with connective tissue diseases, to diminish symptoms associated with exercise. Studies establishing effectiveness included patients with New York Heart Association (NYHA) Functional Class II-IV (moderate to severe) symptoms. In 2006, the FDA expanded its approval to include transition of patients to Remodulin from Flolan&#174;, the first FDA-approved prostacyclin therapy for PAH. In 2007, the results of a prospective, open-label study demonstrated that stable patients with PAH can be safely transitioned from Flolan to intravenous Remodulin using a rapid switch protocol. 

Outside of the United States, Remodulin is approved for the treatment of PAH in 39 countries by continuous subcutaneous administration and in 35 countries by continuous intravenous administration. 

Applications for approval of both subcutaneous and intravenous Remodulin are under review in other countries. We continue to work toward commercializing Remodulin in new territories. 

We believe Remodulin has many qualities that make it an appealing alternative to competitive therapies. Remodulin is stable at room temperature, so it does not need to be cooled during infusion and patients do not need to use cooling packs or refrigeration to keep it stable. Treprostinil is highly soluble, which enables us to produce Remodulin in concentrated solutions. This allows therapeutic concentrations of Remodulin to be delivered at very low flow rates via miniaturized infusion pumps for both subcutaneous and intravenous infusion. Remodulin can be continuously infused for up to 48 hours intravenously or 72 hours subcutaneously before refilling the external infusion pump, and is packaged as an aqueous solution so patients do not have to reconstitute the drug before refilling their pumps. 

In 2008, the FDA approved Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc.'s (Teva) version of generic epoprostenol (the active ingredient in Flolan) for the treatment of PAH via intravenous delivery. Also in 2008, the FDA approved another intravenous but non-generic (temperature stable) version of epoprostenol, which is currently marketed by Actelion Pharmaceuticals Ltd (Actelion) under the name Veletri&#174;. Actelion also markets Tracleer&#174; and Opsumit&#174;, both ETRAs, as well as an inhaled prostacyclin called Ventavis&#174; and the IP prostacyclin receptor agonist known as Uptravi&#174;. Flolan and generic epoprostenol are not stable at room temperature, but Veletri may be stable at room temperature depending on its concentration. Flolan, generic epoprostenol, and Veletri have shorter half-lives than Remodulin, require mixing and daily pump refills, and are not administered with miniaturized infusion pumps. None of these competitive products may be administered via subcutaneous infusion. 

We settled patent litigation with two generic drug companies that filed abbreviated new drug applications (ANDAs) with the FDA to market a generic version of Remodulin in the United States. The first such settlement permits Sandoz Inc. (Sandoz) to launch its generic version of Remodulin in the United States in June 2018 (or earlier in certain circumstances). The second permits Teva to launch its generic version of Remodulin in the United States in December 2018 (or earlier in certain circumstances). For further detail, see the section below entitled Patents and Other Proprietary Rights, Strategic Licenses and Market Exclusivity&#151;Remodulin, Tyvaso and Orenitram Proprietary Rights&#151;Generic Competition . 

There are serious adverse events associated with Remodulin. When infused subcutaneously, Remodulin causes varying degrees of infusion site pain and reaction (redness and swelling) in most patients. Patients who cannot tolerate the infusion site pain related to the use of subcutaneous Remodulin may instead use intravenous Remodulin. Intravenous Remodulin is delivered continuously through a surgically implanted central venous catheter, similar to Flolan, Veletri and generic epoprostenol. Patients who receive therapy through implanted venous catheters have a risk of developing blood stream infections and a serious systemic infection known as sepsis. Other common side effects associated with both subcutaneous and intravenous Remodulin include headache, diarrhea, nausea, jaw pain, vasodilation and edema. 

International Regulatory Review of Subcutaneous and Intravenous Remodulin 

Remodulin is approved in 39 countries outside the United States. In 35 of these countries, it is approved for both subcutaneous and intravenous use. In the other four countries, Remodulin is approved for subcutaneous use only. 

We used the mutual recognition process, described more fully below in Governmental Regulation&#151;Marketing Pharmaceutical Products Outside the United States , to obtain approval of subcutaneous Remodulin in most countries in the European Union (EU) in 2005. Our reference member state for the mutual recognition process was the French regulatory agency, L'Agence Nationale de S&#233;curit&#233; du M&#233;dicament et des Produits de Sant&#233; (ANSM). In 2011, we received regulatory approval for intravenous 

Remodulin by ANSM, which allows us to market intravenous Remodulin in the EEA countries where subcutaneous Remodulin has already been approved and where we have obtained pricing approval and approval of our risk management plan (RMP). 

In Europe, an RMP is routinely required as part of the regulatory approval process for new medicines and also for significant variations involving a change to the route of administration, formulation or indication. For intravenous Remodulin, we have implemented an RMP focused on minimizing the known risks of central venous catheter-related blood stream infections associated with intravenous administration. To date, our RMP for intravenous Remodulin has been approved in 22 EEA countries, with pricing approval in 16 of these. 

In March 2013, the China Food and Drug Administration approved intravenous and subcutaneous Remodulin for PAH in the People's Republic of China. In March 2014, Japan's Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare approved Remodulin for the treatment of PAH by subcutaneous and intravenous administration. Remodulin is sold in Japan under the brand name Treprost&#174;. In the second and third quarters of 2014, we commenced sales of Remodulin to our distributors in China and Japan, respectively. 

Remodulin Implantable System 

In 2009, we entered into an agreement with Medtronic, Inc. (Medtronic) providing us exclusive rights in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, France, Germany, Italy and Japan to develop Medtronic's proprietary intravascular infusion catheter to be used with its SynchroMed&#174; II implantable infusion pump and related infusion system components (together referred to as the Remodulin Implantable System) in order to deliver Remodulin to treat PAH. If the Remodulin Implantable System is successful, it could reduce many of the patient burdens and other complications associated with the use of external pumps to administer prostacyclin analogues. With our funding, Medtronic completed the DelIVery clinical trial, which studied the safety of the Remodulin Implantable System while administering Remodulin. The primary objective was to demonstrate a rate of catheter-related complications below 2.5 per 1,000 patient-days while using the Remodulin Implantable System to deliver Remodulin. In September 2013, Medtronic informed us that this primary objective was met (p&#60;0.0001). 

In order to launch the Remodulin Implantable System in the United States, Medtronic and we are pursuing parallel regulatory filings relating to the device and the drug, respectively. In December 2014, Medtronic submitted a premarket approval application (PMA) seeking FDA approval for the catheter and labeling changes for the SynchroMed II pump. Medtronic is entirely responsible for responding to any FDA requests for additional information concerning the use of the Remodulin Implantable System with Remodulin. In March 2015, the FDA requested that Medtronic amend its PMA to reflect an amendment to the SynchroMed II PMA separately submitted by Medtronic's neuromodulation business unit. Medtronic submitted an amendment to its PMA, which was accepted for review by FDA in January 2016, with FDA action expected in 2016. 

In January 2015, we submitted a supplemental NDA with new labeling requesting FDA approval to allow the use of Remodulin with the Remodulin Implantable System. The FDA issued a refuse-to-file letter in March 2015, which meant that we would need to address FDA comments and resubmit our filing. The FDA also indicated that our submission would be treated as a new NDA. We resubmitted our filing as a new NDA in December 2015, and we expect a ten-month review period (October 2016). 

In April 2015, the FDA filed a consent decree requiring Medtronic to stop manufacturing, designing and distributing SynchroMed II implantable infusion pump systems, except in limited circumstances, citing violations of the quality system regulation for medical devices. The consent decree will remain in effect until the FDA has determined that Medtronic has met all the provisions listed in the consent decree. It is unclear how this consent decree will impact our program to develop and 

commercialize the Remodulin Implantable System, and we anticipate further insight into the potential impact on our program in 2016 when the FDA responds to Medtronic's PMA filing. 

Subcutaneous Remodulin Administered via Pre-Filled, Semi-Disposable Pump 

In December 2014, we entered into an exclusive agreement with DEKA Research &#38; Development Corp. (DEKA) to develop a pre-filled, semi-disposable pump system for subcutaneous delivery of Remodulin. Under the terms of the agreement, we are funding all of the development costs related to the semi-disposable pump system and will pay product fees and a single-digit royalty to DEKA based on commercial sales of the system and the Remodulin sold for use with the system. Currently, we are undertaking engineering, design and development work to optimize the DEKA pump to deliver Remodulin in pre-filled reservoirs, and intend to conduct human factor studies in healthy volunteers before submitting an application to the FDA to approve the pre-filled DEKA pump. We do not anticipate that the FDA will require us to conduct clinical trials in patients. Our goal is to be in a position to receive FDA approval for this delivery system by the end of 2018. 

Tyvaso 

We commenced commercial sales of Tyvaso in the United States in 2009. We sell Tyvaso to the same specialty pharmaceutical distributors in the United States that distribute Remodulin. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we recognized approximately $470.1 million, $463.1 million and $438.8 million in Tyvaso net product sales, representing 32 percent, 36 percent and 39 percent, respectively, of our total revenues. 

Tyvaso, which contains the active ingredient treprostinil, is administered four times a day by inhaling up to nine breaths during each treatment session, which takes approximately three minutes. Tyvaso is required to be administered using our proprietary Tyvaso Inhalation System, which consists of an ultra-sonic nebulizer that provides a dose of Tyvaso on a breath-by-breath basis. A single ampule containing Tyvaso is emptied into the Tyvaso Inhalation System once per day, so the Tyvaso Inhalation System only needs to be cleaned once daily. 

Tyvaso was generally well tolerated in our trials. The most common adverse events were transient cough, headache, nausea, dizziness and flushing. We completed an open-label study in the United States to investigate the clinical effects of switching patients from Ventavis to Tyvaso. Patients in this study saved an average of approximately 1.4 hours per day when administering Tyvaso compared to Ventavis. 

Ventavis is the only other FDA-approved inhaled prostacyclin analogue and is marketed by Actelion in the United States and by Bayer Schering Pharma AG (Bayer) in Europe. The active ingredient in Ventavis is iloprost. Patients need to inhale Ventavis six to nine times per day via a nebulizer. According to its package insert, each Ventavis inhalation consists of four to ten minutes of continuous inhalation via the nebulizer. Ventavis can cause a decrease in systemic (body-wide) blood pressure if the drug is administered at too high a dose. 

We are developing further enhancements intended to make the Tyvaso Inhalation System easier to use. In addition, we are studying Tyvaso in combination with esuberaprost, as discussed below. Finally, we are currently planning a phase II study of Tyvaso in patients with pulmonary hypertension associated with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. 

Regulatory Approval of Tyvaso 

In 2009, the FDA approved Tyvaso for the treatment of PAH in WHO Group 1 patients to improve exercise capacity using the Tyvaso Inhalation System. Studies establishing effectiveness included predominately patients with NYHA Functional Class III symptoms. Tyvaso is approved in Israel, where we commenced commercial sales during the second quarter of 2015. 

In June 2010, the FDA granted orphan drug designation for Tyvaso. Such a designation, coupled with FDA approval of the product for the orphan indication, confers an exclusivity period through July 2016, during which the FDA may not approve any application to market the same drug for the same indication, except in limited circumstances. 

In April 2004, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) designated Tyvaso an orphan medicinal product for the treatment of both PAH and chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension. EMA orphan drug designation confers a ten-year exclusivity period commencing with marketing approval. We filed a Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) in December 2008 for Tyvaso with the EMA using the centralized filing process, but withdrew our MAA from consideration by the EMA due to the EMA's major objection related to findings of non-compliance with good clinical practices at two clinical sites. The EMA stated that these findings would preclude a recommendation for approval of Tyvaso in the EU, although the EMA had no major objections at the time of withdrawal related to the safety or efficacy of Tyvaso. At present, we are evaluating the resubmission of Tyvaso for EMA approval as a standalone treatment of PAH, based on experience with the drug since approval by the FDA. 

Orenitram 

Orenitram is an extended-release, oral tablet form of treprostinil, which we launched commercially in the United States during the second quarter of 2014. Orenitram is the only FDA-approved, orally administered prostacyclin analogue. We sell Orenitram to the same specialty pharmaceutical distributors in the United States that distribute Remodulin and Tyvaso. For the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, we recognized approximately $118.4 million and $41.3 million in Orenitram net product sales, representing eight percent and three percent, respectively, of our total revenues. 

Regulatory Approval of Orenitram 

In December 2013, the FDA approved Orenitram for the treatment of PAH in WHO Group 1 patients to improve exercise capacity. The primary study that established efficacy (FREEDOM-M) included predominately patients with WHO functional class II-III symptoms and etiologies of idiopathic or heritable PAH (75%) or PAH associated with connective tissue disease (19%). The most common side effects observed were headache, nausea and diarrhea. FREEDOM-M was a 12-week monotherapy study of Orenitram (meaning patients were not on any background PAH therapy), which met its primary endpoint of improvement in six-minute walk distance at week 12. Analysis of the FREEDOM-M results demonstrated that patients receiving Orenitram improved their six-minute walk distance by a median of approximately 23 meters (p=0.0125, Hodges-Lehmann estimate and non-parametric analysis of covariance in accordance with the trial's pre-specified statistical analysis plan) as compared to patients receiving the placebo. In January 2016, the FDA approved amended labeling describing the transition of patients from intravenous or subcutaneous Remodulin to Orenitram. 

Orenitram Combination Therapy 

In addition to the successful monotherapy study noted above, we also conducted two unsuccessful phase III studies of Orenitram in combination with other approved therapies. We believe that in order for Orenitram to reach its full commercial potential, we need to complete further studies to support an amendment to Orenitram's label to indicate that Orenitram delays morbidity and mortality (also known as "time to clinical worsening") in patients who are on an approved oral background therapy. As such, we are enrolling up to 610 patients in a phase IV clinical trial called FREEDOM-EV, which began in 2012. FREEDOM-EV is a placebo-controlled study of patients who enter the study on an approved background therapy, and one of the two primary endpoints of the study is the time to clinical worsening. The other primary endpoint is change in six-minute walk distance from baseline to week 24. 

We expect to seek approval of Orenitram in Europe upon completion of the FREEDOM-EV study. In 2005, the EMA announced that Orenitram had been designated an orphan medicinal product for the treatment of PAH. A request for orphan drug designation for Orenitram for PAH is pending before the FDA. 

Adcirca 

We began selling Adcirca in 2009. Adcirca is a PDE-5 inhibitor, the active pharmaceutical ingredient of which is tadalafil. Tadalafil is also the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Cialis&#174;, which is marketed by Lilly for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. We acquired the commercial rights to Adcirca for the treatment of PAH in the United States from Lilly in 2008. We sell Adcirca at prices established by Lilly, which are at parity with Cialis pricing and are typically set at a discount from an average wholesale price to pharmaceutical wholesalers. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we recognized approximately $278.8 million, $221.5 million and $177.0 million in Adcirca net product sales, representing 19 percent, 17 percent and 16 percent, respectively, of our total revenues. 

Patients with PAH have been shown to have reduced levels of the enzyme responsible for producing NO, a naturally occurring substance in the body that has the effect of relaxing vascular smooth muscle cells. NO relaxes pulmonary blood vessels by increasing intracellular levels of cyclic GMP. Because cyclic GMP is degraded by PDE-5, an established therapeutic approach in the treatment of PAH is to use PDE-5 inhibitors to increase levels of cyclic GMP in blood vessels and improve cardiopulmonary function in PAH patients. 

In September 2014, Gilead announced the results of a study of ambrisentan (an ETRA) and tadalafil in PAH patients as a first-line combination treatment, compared to treating PAH patients with only ambrisentan or tadalafil. In the study, first-line treatment with both therapies reduced the risk of clinical failure compared to a monotherapy treatment by 50 percent (p=0.0002). Based on these results, in October 2015, the FDA approved an update to the NDA for Letairis&#174; (ambrisentan), permitting the use of Letairis in combination with tadalafil for PAH to reduce the risks of disease progression and hospitalization for worsening PAH, and to improve exercise ability. 

Prior to the approval of Adcirca, Revatio&#174;, which is marketed by Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer), was the only PDE-5 inhibitor approved for the treatment of PAH. Sildenafil citrate, the active ingredient in Revatio, is also the active ingredient in Viagra&#174;, which is marketed by Pfizer for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. In 2012, several companies launched generic formulations of sildenafil citrate. Revatio and generic sildenafil citrate are dosed three times daily. Adcirca is dosed once daily. 

FDA Approval of Adcirca 

In 2009, the FDA approved Adcirca with a recommended dose of 40 mg, making it the only once-daily PDE-5 inhibitor for the treatment of PAH. Adcirca is indicated to improve exercise ability in patients with PAH (WHO Group 1), which encompasses patients with various etiologies, such as idiopathic and heritable PAH as well as PAH associated with connective tissue diseases. Studies establishing effectiveness included predominately patients with NYHA Functional Class II-III symptoms. Headaches were the most commonly reported side effect. 

Commercial Rights to Adcirca 

In 2008, we entered into several agreements with Lilly, including a license agreement and a manufacturing and supply agreement. Pursuant to the license agreement, Lilly granted us an exclusive license to develop, market, promote and commercialize Adcirca for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension in the United States. Pursuant to the manufacturing and supply agreement, Lilly manufactures Adcirca and distributes it on our behalf via its wholesaler network, in the same manner that it distributes its own pharmaceutical products. See Patents and Other Proprietary Rights, Strategic Licenses and Market Exclusivity below for more details on these agreements. 

Esuberaprost 

We have the exclusive right to develop and market a modified-release formulation of beraprost in North America, Europe, and certain other territories for the treatment of cardiovascular indications, pursuant to our license agreement with Toray Industries, Inc. (Toray), which is described below under Patents and Other Proprietary Rights, Strategic Licenses and Market Exclusivity&#151;Toray Amended License Agreement . Beraprost is a chemically stable, orally bioavailable prostacyclin analogue. Like natural prostacyclin and treprostinil, beraprost is believed to dilate blood vessels and prevent both platelet aggregation and proliferation of smooth muscle cells surrounding blood vessels, via a unique profile of pulmonary vascular receptor selectivity. 

In July 2012, we completed a phase I safety trial of esuberaprost, a reformulated, single-isomer version of beraprost, and the data suggested that dosing esuberaprost four times a day was safe. We believe that esuberaprost and treprostinil have differing prostacyclin receptor-binding profiles and thus could provide benefits to certain groups of patients with differing sets of safety and efficacy profiles. We also believe that inhaled treprostinil and esuberaprost have complimentary pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profiles, which indicate that they should provide greater efficacy in combination. As a result, in 2013 we began enrolling a phase III study called BEAT ( BE raprost 314d A dd-on to T yvaso) to evaluate the clinical benefit and safety of esuberaprost in combination with Tyvaso for patients with PAH who show signs of deterioration on inhaled treprostinil or have a less than optimal response to inhaled treprostinil treatment. We intend to enroll 240 patients in the study, which will have a primary endpoint of time to clinical worsening. 

Products to Treat Cancer 

Unituxin 

In March 2015, the FDA approved our Biologics License Application (BLA) for Unituxin, in combination with granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), interleukin-2 (IL-2), and 13-cis-retinoic acid (RA), for the treatment of pediatric patients with high-risk neuroblastoma who achieve at least a partial response to prior first-line multiagent, multimodality therapy. We commenced U.S. sales of Unituxin in the third quarter of 2015. We received European Commission approval during the third quarter of 2015, and plan to commence commercial sales in individual European countries following pricing and reimbursement approvals on a country-by-country basis. For the year ended December 31, 2015, we recognized approximately $20.4 million in Unituxin net product sales, representing one percent of our net revenues. 

We previously received orphan drug designation for Unituxin from both the FDA and the EMA. Orphan designation, coupled with FDA approval of our BLA for Unituxin, confers an exclusivity period through March 2022, during which the FDA may not approve any application to market the same drug for the same indication, except in limited circumstances. See Patents and Other Proprietary Rights, Strategic Licenses and Market Exclusivity&#151;Unituxin Proprietary Rights below for more details. 

Under our BLA approval for Unituxin, the FDA has imposed certain post-marketing requirements and post-marketing commitments on us. We are conducting additional clinical and non-clinical studies to satisfy these requirements and commitments. While we believe we will be able to complete these studies, any failure to satisfy these requirements or commitments could result in penalties, including fines or withdrawal of Unituxin from the market, unless we are able to demonstrate good cause for the failure. 

Organ Transplantation Research and Development 

We are engaged in a number of research and development activities in xenotransplantation, regenerative medicine and ex-vivo lung perfusion, all of which are intended to increase the supply of 

transplantable organs and tissues. These activities are principally focused on lungs, but are also being applied to other organs such as hearts and kidneys. For additional detail, see Item 7&#151;Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;Major Research and Development Projects&#151;Organ Transplantation . 

Sales and Marketing 

Our marketing strategy for our commercial products is to use our sales and marketing teams to reach out to the prescriber community to: (1) increase PAH awareness; (2) increase understanding of the progressive nature of PAH; and (3) increase awareness of our commercial products and how they fit into the various stages of disease progression and treatment. Our sales and marketing teams consisted of approximately 160 employees as of December 31, 2015. We have divided our domestic PAH sales force into two teams. One team sells Remodulin and Orenitram, while the other team sells Tyvaso and Adcirca. We have a separate team that is responsible for marketing Unituxin. 

Distribution of Commercial Products 

United States Distribution of Remodulin, Tyvaso, Orenitram, and Unituxin 

We distribute Remodulin, Tyvaso and Orenitram throughout the United States through two contracted specialty pharmaceutical distributors: Accredo Health Group, Inc. (Accredo) and CVS Caremark (Caremark). These distributors are required to maintain certain minimum inventory levels in order to ensure an uninterrupted supply to patients who are prescribed our therapies. We compensate Accredo and Caremark on a fee-for-service basis for certain ancillary services in connection with the distribution of these products. If any of our distribution agreements expire or terminate, we may, under certain circumstances, be required to repurchase any unsold Remodulin, Tyvaso or Orenitram inventory held by our distributors. 

These specialty pharmaceutical distributors are responsible for assisting patients with obtaining reimbursement for the cost of our treprostinil-based products and providing other support services. Under our distribution agreements, we sell each of our treprostinil-based products to these distributors at a transfer price that we establish. We have generally increased the price of Tyvaso by 4.9 percent annually, with the last such price increase becoming effective on January 1, 2015. We have not increased the price of Remodulin since 2010. We have also established patient assistance programs in the United States, which provide our treprostinil-based products to eligible uninsured or under-insured patients at no charge. Accredo and Caremark assist us with the administration of these programs. 

In the second quarter of 2015, we entered into an exclusive distribution agreement with ASD Specialty Healthcare, Inc. (ASD), an affiliate of AmerisourceBergen Corporation, to distribute Unituxin in the United States. Under this agreement, we sell Unituxin to ASD at a transfer price that we establish, and we pay ASD fees for services provided in connection with the distribution and support of Unituxin. 

United States Distribution of Adcirca 

We sell Adcirca to pharmaceutical wholesalers at a discount from an average wholesale price. Under our manufacturing and supply agreement with Lilly (see Patents and Other Proprietary Rights, Strategic Licenses and Market Exclusivity below for more details), Lilly manufactures Adcirca and distributes it via its wholesaler network, which includes Accredo and Caremark, in the same manner that it distributes its own pharmaceutical products. Under the terms of this agreement, we take title to Adcirca upon completion of its manufacture by Lilly. Adcirca is shipped to customers in accordance with purchase orders received by Lilly. When customers take delivery of Adcirca, Lilly sends an invoice and collects the amount due from the customer subject to customary discounts and rebates, if any. Although Lilly provides these services on our behalf, we maintain the risk of loss as it pertains to 

inventory, product returns and non-payment of invoices. The manufacturing and supply agreement will continue in effect until expiration or termination of the license agreement. Lilly retains authority under the license agreement for all regulatory activities with respect to Adcirca, as well as its retail pricing, which has been and is expected to remain at price parity with Cialis. Since receiving FDA approval of Adcirca, Lilly has generally increased the net wholesale price of Adcirca two or three times each year. During 2014, Lilly increased the net wholesale price of Adcirca by 9.1 percent in July and by 9.9 percent in December. During 2015, Lilly increased the net wholesale price of Adcirca by 9.9 percent in May and by 9.9 percent in December. We have also established a patient assistance program in the United States, which provides Adcirca to eligible uninsured or under-insured patients at no charge. 

International Distribution of Remodulin 

We currently sell subcutaneous and intravenous Remodulin outside the United States to various distributors, each of which has exclusive distribution rights in one or more countries within Europe, Israel and the Middle East, Asia and South and Central America. We also distribute Remodulin in Canada through a specialty pharmaceutical wholesaler. In some of the European markets where we are not licensed to market Remodulin, such as in Spain and the United Kingdom, we sell (but do not market) Remodulin on a named-patient basis in which therapies are approved for individual patients by a national medical review board, hospital or health plan on a case-by-case basis. We continue to work on expanding our sales of Remodulin into new territories through our existing network of distributors. 

Patents and Other Proprietary Rights, Strategic Licenses and Market Exclusivity 

Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, preserve trade secrets, prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights and operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others in the United States and worldwide. Many of these proprietary rights stem from licenses and other strategic relationships with third parties. In addition to intellectual property rights, U.S. and international regulatory authorities often provide periods of market exclusivity for manufacturers of biopharmaceutical products. 

Patents provide the owner with a right to exclude others from practicing an invention. Patents may cover the active ingredients, uses, formulations, doses, administrations, delivery mechanisms, manufacturing processes and other aspects of a product. The period of patent protection for any given product generally depends on the expiration date of various patents and may differ from country to country according to the type of patents, the scope of coverage and the remedies for infringement available in a country. Most of our commercial products and investigational products are protected by patents that expire on varying dates. 

Significant legal questions exist concerning the extent and scope of patent protection for biopharmaceutical products and processes in the United States and elsewhere. Accordingly, there is no certainty that patent applications owned or licensed by us will be issued as patents, or that our issued patents will afford meaningful protection against competitors. Once issued, patents are subject to challenge through both administrative and judicial proceedings in the United States and other countries. Such proceedings include re-examinations, inter partes reviews, post-grant reviews and interference proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, as well as opposition proceedings before the European Patent Office. Litigation may be required to enforce, defend or obtain our patent and other intellectual property rights. Any administrative proceeding or litigation could require a significant commitment of our resources and, depending on outcome, could adversely affect the scope, validity or enforceability of certain of our patent or other proprietary rights. 

Remodulin, Tyvaso and Orenitram Proprietary Rights 

We have a number of issued patents and pending patent applications covering the stable prostacyclin analogue known as treprostinil, which is the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Remodulin, Tyvaso and Orenitram. 

In January 1997, we acquired patents covering the use of treprostinil for PAH from GlaxoSmithKline PLC (formerly Glaxo Wellcome, Inc.) (Glaxo) in exchange for certain payments including a royalty on sales of any product containing treprostinil. All of these patents expired in October 2014, as did our royalty payment obligation to Glaxo. 

In October 1997, we filed patent applications for a new synthesis method for treprostinil in the United States, Europe and various other countries. These applications resulted in the grant of three patents in the United States, all of which expire in October 2017, as well as patents granted in a number of other countries which expire in October 2018. 

We continue to conduct research into new methods to synthesize treprostinil and have filed a number of additional patent applications relating to production of treprostinil, several of which have already been granted in the United States. One such patent was granted, expiring in 2028, and is listed in the FDA's Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, commonly known as the Orange Book (see Orange Book below), for Remodulin, Tyvaso and Orenitram. 

In addition to the treprostinil patents noted above, we have other patents specific to our individual treprostinil-based products, including the following: 

&#149; Remodulin. We have been granted three U.S. patents covering an improved diluent for Remodulin, which expire in 2028 and 2029. We have another patent covering intravenous administration of Remodulin with certain diluents, which expires in 2024. All four of these patents are listed in the Orange Book. &#149; Tyvaso. We have been granted two U.S. patents, as well as patents in other countries, for Tyvaso that cover methods of treating PAH by inhaled delivery. These patents will expire in the United States in 2018 and in various countries throughout the world in 2020. &#149; Orenitram. Our patents for Orenitram cover methods of use for treating PAH, orally administered formulations, controlled moisture storage and production methods, as well as those covering controlled release formulations licensed to us by Supernus Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Supernus). These patents will expire in the United States between 2024 and 2031 and in various countries throughout the world between 2024 and 2027. We have additional pending U.S. and international patent applications relating to Remodulin, Tyvaso and Orenitram. 

Orange Book 

In seeking approval of a drug through an NDA or BLA or upon issuance of new patents following approval of an NDA or BLA, applicants are required to submit to the FDA each patent that has claims covering the applicant's product or a method of using the product. Each of the patents submitted is then published in the Orange Book. See Governmental Regulation&#151;Hatch-Waxman Act below for further details. Remodulin currently has six unexpired Orange Book-listed patents with expiration dates ranging from 2017 to 2029. Tyvaso currently has four unexpired Orange Book listed patents with expiration dates ranging from 2017 to 2028. Orenitram currently has nine unexpired Orange Book listed patents with expiration dates ranging from 2017 to 2031. Additional patent applications are pending, and if granted, may be eligible for listing in the Orange Book. 

Regulatory Exclusivity 

In June 2010, the FDA granted orphan drug designation for Tyvaso. This designation confers an exclusivity period through July 2016, during which the FDA may not approve any application to market the same drug for the same indication, except under limited circumstances. As a result of FDA approval of our NDA for Orenitram as a new dosage form, Orenitram has three years of market exclusivity for PAH expiring in December 2016. A request for orphan drug designation for Orenitram is pending with the FDA. 

Remodulin was formerly protected in the EU by data protection regulations, which prevent the grant of an abbreviated marketing approval for a product containing treprostinil for the treatment of PAH for a period of either six or ten years from the date of the grant of the first marketing authorization in the EU. In those countries where protection runs for six years, that period expired prior to 2015, while in those countries where protection runs for ten years, that period expired in February 2015. 

Generic Competition 

In September 2015, we settled litigation with Sandoz relating to Sandoz's ANDA seeking FDA approval to market a generic version of Remodulin before the expiration of certain of our U.S. patents in October 2017, September 2028, December 2028, and March 2029. Under the terms of this settlement, Sandoz will be permitted to market its generic version of Remodulin in the United States beginning in June 2018, although Sandoz may be permitted to enter the market earlier under certain circumstances. We also recently settled litigation with Teva relating to a similar ANDA to market a generic version of Remodulin. That settlement permits Teva to market its generic version of Remodulin in the United States beginning in December 2018, although Teva may be permitted to enter the market earlier under certain circumstances. We are engaged in litigation against Watson Laboratories, Inc. (Watson), contesting its ANDA to market a generic version of Tyvaso before the expiration of certain of our U.S. patents in November 2018 and December 2028. Finally, in October 2015 SteadyMed Ltd. (SteadyMed) filed a petition for inter partes review seeking to invalidate one of our patents that expires in December 2028 and covers a method of making treprostinil, which is the active ingredient in Remodulin, Tyvaso and Orenitram. SteadyMed has announced that it is developing a product called Trevyent&#153;, which is a single-use, pre-filled pump intended to deliver a two-day supply of treprostinil subcutaneously using SteadyMed's PatchPump&#174; technology. In January 2016, SteadyMed announced that Trevyent has been granted orphan drug designation by the FDA for the treatment of PAH. These matters are discussed further in Item 3&#151;Legal Proceedings of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in Note 19&#151; Litigation , to our consolidated financial statements included with this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In February 2016, we received notice that Actavis Laboratories FL, Inc. (Actavis) filed an ANDA seeking FDA approval to market a generic version of the 2.5 mg strength of Orenitram. For further details, please see Part II, Item 9B&#151;Other Information . 

As a result of our settlements with Sandoz and Teva, we expect to see generic competition from these companies for Remodulin beginning in June 2018 and December 2018, respectively. This increased competition could reduce our sales and profits. In addition, while we intend to vigorously enforce our intellectual property rights relating to Tyvaso and Orenitram, we may not prevail in defending our patent rights, and additional challenges from other ANDA filers or other challengers may surface with respect to these products. Our patents could be invalidated, found unenforceable or found not to cover one or more generic forms of Remodulin, Tyvaso or Orenitram. If any ANDA filer receives approval to sell a generic version of Remodulin, Tyvaso or Orenitram and/or prevail in any patent litigation, the affected product(s) would become subject to increased competition, which could reduce our sales and profits. 

Certain patents for Revatio, a PDE-5 inhibitor marketed by Pfizer for treatment of PAH, expired in 2012, leading several manufacturers to launch generic formulations of sildenafil citrate, the active ingredient in Revatio. Generic sildenafil's lower price relative to Adcirca could lead to pressure from payers to use generic products within the same class of therapy initially, which could erode Adcirca's market share and limit its potential sales. Although we believe Adcirca's once-daily dosing regimen provides a significant competitive advantage over generic sildenafil's multiple dosing regimen, government payers and private insurance companies may favor the use of less expensive generic sildenafil over Adcirca. Thus far, we have not observed any measurable impact of generic sildenafil on sales of Adcirca; however, circumstances could change over time and our revenues could be adversely impacted. The U.S. patent for Adcirca for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension will expire in November 2017, following which we expect to see generic competition for Adcirca. 

Patent expiration and generic competition for any of our commercial PAH products could have a significant, adverse impact on our revenues and profits, and is inherently difficult to predict. For additional discussion, refer to the risk factor entitled, Our intellectual property rights may not effectively deter competitors from developing competing products that, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profit s, contained in Item 1A &#151; Risk Factors included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Supernus License 

In 2006, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with Supernus to use certain of its technologies in producing Orenitram. Under the agreement, we paid Supernus certain amounts upon the achievement of specified milestones based on the development and commercial launch of Orenitram for PAH, and we would be obligated to make additional milestone payments if we develop Orenitram for a second indication. In addition, the agreement provides that we will pay a single-digit royalty based on net worldwide sales. This royalty will be paid for approximately twelve years commencing with the first product sale and is subject to adjustments as specified in the agreement. The royalties commenced in the second quarter of 2014 with the first sale of Orenitram. 

Lilly Agreements Related to Adcirca 

In 2008, we entered into several agreements with Lilly regarding Adcirca, including a license agreement and a manufacturing and supply agreement. 

License Agreement 

Under the terms of the license agreement, Lilly granted us an exclusive license for the right to develop, market, promote and commercialize Adcirca for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension in the United States. We agreed to pay Lilly royalties equal to five percent of our net product sales of Adcirca, as a pass through of Lilly's third-party royalty obligations, for so long as Lilly is required to make such payments. 

Lilly retained the exclusive rights to develop, manufacture and commercialize pharmaceutical products containing tadalafil, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Adcirca, for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension outside of the United States and for the treatment of other diseases worldwide. Lilly retained authority for all regulatory activities with respect to Adcirca and for setting the wholesale price of Adcirca, which has been and is expected to continue to be at price parity with Cialis. 

The license agreement will continue in effect until the later of: (1) expiration, lapse, cancellation, abandonment or invalidation of the last claim to expire within a Lilly patent covering the commercialization of Adcirca for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension in the United States; or 

(2) expiration of any government-conferred exclusivity rights to use Adcirca for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension in the United States. 

We have the right to terminate the license agreement upon six months written notice to Lilly. Lilly has the right to terminate in the event of a change of control of our company. Either party may terminate upon a material breach by the other party of the license agreement or the manufacturing and supply agreement, described above. 

The U.S. patent for Adcirca for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension will expire in November 2017. 

Manufacturing and Supply Agreement 

Under the terms of the manufacturing and supply agreement, Lilly agreed to manufacture Adcirca and distribute it on our behalf via its pharmaceutical wholesaler network, in the same manner that it distributes its own pharmaceutical products. Under the terms of this agreement, we take title to Adcirca upon its manufacture by Lilly. Adcirca is shipped to customers, generally pharmaceutical wholesalers, in accordance with customers' purchase orders received by Lilly. Lilly invoices and collects amounts due from the customer subject to customary discounts and rebates, if any, and remits the collections to us. Although Lilly is providing these services on our behalf, we maintain the risk of loss as it pertains to inventory, product returns and nonpayment of sales invoices. The manufacturing and supply agreement will continue in effect until expiration or termination of the license agreement. 

We also agreed to purchase Adcirca at a fixed manufacturing cost. The agreement provides a mechanism, generally related to the increase in the national cost of pharmaceutical manufacturing, pursuant to which Lilly may raise the manufacturing cost of Adcirca. 

Unituxin Proprietary Rights 

In 2010, we entered into a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement (CRADA) with the National Cancer Institute (NCI) of the United States National Institutes for Health (NIH) to collaborate on the late-stage development and regulatory approval process for Unituxin for children with high-risk neuroblastoma and patients with other forms of cancer. In lieu of a royalty payment to the NCI, we have an ongoing obligation to provide the NCI with Unituxin for its studies free of charge. We previously received orphan drug designation for Unituxin from both the FDA and the EMA. Orphan designation, coupled with FDA approval of our BLA in March 2015, confers an exclusivity period through March 2022, during which the FDA may not approve any application to market the same drug for the same indication, except in limited circumstances. For further details, refer to the section above entitled Products to Treat Cancer&#151;Unituxin. 

Medtronic Agreement 

In 2009, we entered into an exclusive agreement with Medtronic, which was amended in 2011, to collaborate on the development and commercialization of Medtronic's proprietary intravascular infusion catheter to be used with Medtronic's Synchromed II implantable infusion pump and related infusion system components (together referred to as the Remodulin Implantable System) in order to deliver Remodulin for the treatment of PAH in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, France, Germany, Italy and Japan. Under the amended agreement, we have been working together at our expense to develop the Remodulin Implantable System, conduct a clinical trial (which was completed in 2013) and obtain regulatory approval for the use of Remodulin with the Remodulin Implantable System. If this development program is successful, our agreement provides that, upon commercialization, we will purchase infusion pumps and supplies from Medtronic and will also pay a royalty to Medtronic based on net product sales of Remodulin for use in the Remodulin Implantable System within the exclusive territories, subject to certain adjustments specified in the agreement. The 

Remodulin Implantable System will be exclusive to Remodulin so long as we purchase a minimum percentage of our annual requirement for implantable pump systems from Medtronic. We will be solely responsible for all marketing and promotion of the Remodulin Implantable System for the delivery of Remodulin for the treatment of PAH in the exclusive territories. For further details, refer to the section above entitled Products to Treat Cardiopulmonary Diseases&#151;Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension&#151;Remodulin&#151;Remodulin Implantable System. 

Toray Amended License Agreement 

In 2000, we licensed from Toray the exclusive right to develop and market beraprost for cardiovascular indications. Beraprost is a chemically stable oral prostacyclin analogue in a sustained release formulation, which is approved to treat PAH in Japan and certain other countries. This license gives us exclusive rights to develop beraprost and its variants (including esuberaprost) throughout North America, Europe, and certain other territories. We are currently developing esuberaprost under this license agreement. 

Pursuant to a March 2007 amendment to our license agreement with Toray, we issued 200,000 shares of our common stock to Toray. Toray has the right to request that we repurchase these shares (which have since split into 400,000 shares) upon 30 days prior written notice at the price of $27.21 per share. The 2007 amendment also provided for certain milestone payments during the development period and upon receipt of regulatory approval for beraprost in the United States or the EU. 

In 2011, we amended our license agreement with Toray to reduce the royalty rates in exchange for a total of $50.0 million in equal, non-refundable payments to Toray over the five-year period ending in 2015. As of December 31, 2015, this obligation was fully satisfied. Toray has the right to terminate the license agreement in the event of a change of control of our company under certain circumstances. For further details, refer to the section above entitled Products to Treat Cardiopulmonary Diseases&#151;Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension&#151;Esuberaprost. 

DEKA Agreement 

In December 2014, we entered into an exclusive agreement with DEKA to develop a pre-filled, semi-disposable pump system for subcutaneous delivery of Remodulin. Under the terms of the agreement, we are funding the development costs related to the semi-disposable pump system and will pay product fees and a single-digit royalty to DEKA based on commercial sales of the system and the Remodulin sold for use with the system. Our goal is to be in a position to receive FDA approval for this delivery system by the end of 2018. 

Other 

We are party to various other license agreements relating to therapies and technologies under development. These license agreements require us to make payments based on a percentage of sales if we are successful in commercially developing these therapies, and may require other payments upon the achievement of certain milestones. 

Research &#38; Development Expenditures 

We are engaged in research and development and have incurred substantial expenses for these activities. These expenses generally include the cost of acquiring or inventing new technologies and products, as well as new product development (both preclinical and clinical studies and manufacturing cost for unapproved products). Research and development expenses during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 totaled approximately $245.1 million, $242.5 million and $299.3 million, respectively. See Item 7&#151;Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;Major Research and Development Projects for additional information 

regarding expenditures related to major research and development projects. Research and development expense is significantly impacted by fluctuations in our stock price, due to the cash payment obligations created by our share-based compensation programs. For further details, see Item 7&#151;Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;Operating Expenses&#151;Share-Based Compensation. 

Production and Supply 

We produce our primary supply of Remodulin, Tyvaso, Orenitram and Unituxin at our own facilities. In particular, we synthesize treprostinil, the active ingredient in Remodulin and Tyvaso, and treprostinil diolamine, the active ingredient in Orenitram, at our facility in Silver Spring, Maryland. We also produce finished Tyvaso, Remodulin, and Unituxin at our Silver Spring facility. We produce Orenitram and we package, warehouse and distribute Remodulin, Tyvaso, Orenitram and Unituxin, at our facility in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. 

We maintain a two-year inventory of Remodulin, Tyvaso and Orenitram based on expected demand, and we also contract with third-party contract manufacturers to supplement our capacity, in order to mitigate the risk that we might not be able to produce sufficient quantities to meet patient demand. For example, Baxter Pharmaceutical Solutions, LLC (Baxter) is approved by the FDA, the EMA and various other international regulatory agencies to produce Remodulin for us. In the case of Tyvaso, we rely on Catalent Pharma Solutions, Inc. (Catalent) to serve as an additional producer of Tyvaso, and we rely entirely on Minnetronix Inc. to manufacture the nebulizer used in our Tyvaso Inhalation System. We are working to obtain FDA approval of third party contract manufacturers to serve as additional producers of Orenitram and Unituxin. 

Although we believe that additional third parties could provide similar products, services and materials, there are few companies that could replace our existing third-party producers and suppliers. A change in supplier or producer could cause a delay in the production, distribution and research efforts associated with our respective products or result in increased costs. See also Item 1A&#151;Risk Factors included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Competition 

Many drug companies engage in research and development to commercialize products to treat cardiovascular diseases and cancer. For the treatment of PAH, we compete with many approved products in the United States and the rest of the world, including the following: 

&#149; Flolan, Veletri and generic epoprostenol. Flolan (epoprostenol) is a prostacyclin that is delivered by intravenous infusion. Glaxo began marketing Flolan in the United States in 1996, and the generic exclusivity period for Flolan expired in 2007. In 2008, the FDA approved Teva's version of generic epoprostenol for the treatment of PAH. In 2010, Actelion commenced sales of Veletri, which is another version of intravenous epoprostenol; &#149; Ventavis and Ilomedin&#174;. Approved in 2004 in the United States and in 2003 in Europe, Ventavis (iloprost) is an inhaled prostacyclin analogue. Ventavis is currently marketed by Actelion in the United States and by Bayer in Europe. Iloprost is also marketed by Bayer in certain countries outside the United States in an intravenous form known as Ilomedin; &#149; Tracleer. Tracleer (bosentan), an oral ETRA therapy for the treatment of PAH, was approved in 2001 in the United States and in 2002 in Europe. Tracleer is marketed worldwide by Actelion; &#149; Letairis. Approved in 2007 in the United States, Letairis (ambrisentan) is an oral ETRA therapy marketed by Gilead for the treatment of PAH. In 2008, Glaxo received marketing authorization from the EMA for Letairis in Europe, where it is known as Volibris&#174;; 20 

&#149; Revatio and generic sildenafil citrate. Approved in 2005 in the United States, Revatio (sildenafil citrate) is an oral PDE-5 inhibitor therapy marketed by Pfizer. Revatio contains sildenafil citrate, the same active ingredient as Viagra. In the fourth quarter of 2012, several companies began marketing generic formulations of sildenafil citrate; &#149; Opsumit. Approved in October 2013 in the United States and December 2013 in the EU, Opsumit (macitentan) is an oral ETRA marketed by Actelion for the treatment of PAH; &#149; Adempas&#174;. Approved in August 2013 in the United States and March 2014 in the EU, Adempas (riociguat) is a soluble guanylate cyclase stimulator, which targets a similar vasodilatory pathway as PDE-5 inhibitors and is approved for chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension and PAH. Adempas is an oral therapy marketed by Bayer; and &#149; Uptravi. Approved in the United States in December 2015, Uptravi (selexipag) is an oral IP prostacyclin receptor agonist marketed by Actelion. Actelion submitted an MAA for EMA approval of Uptravi in December 2014, and in January 2016 received a positive opinion from the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use recommending European Commission approval for Uptravi. Actelion also has applications pending in various other jurisdictions. Nippon Shinyaku Co., Ltd. holds the right to market Uptravi in Japan, where it submitted an NDA in January 2016. There are also a variety of investigational PAH therapies in the later stages of development, including the following: 

&#149; Ralinepag, an oral IP prostacyclin receptor agonist being developed by Arena Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Arena). Arena commenced a phase II clinical trial of ralinepag in 2014; and &#149; Trevyent , a formulation of treprostinil being developed by SteadyMed Ltd. (SteadyMed) for delivery via its pre-filled, disposable PatchPump&#174;. SteadyMed announced that it plans to submit an NDA and MAA for Trevyent in the second half of 2016. In January 2016, SteadyMed announced that Trevyent has been granted orphan drug designation by the FDA for the treatment of PAH. Oral non-prostacyclin therapies (such as PDE-5 inhibitors and ETRAs) are commonly prescribed as first-line treatments for the least severely ill PAH patients (NYHA Class II patients). As patients progress in their disease severity (NYHA Class III and IV), less convenient approved therapies, such as inhaled prostacyclin analogues (such as Tyvaso) or infused prostacyclin analogues (such as Remodulin) are commonly added. Orenitram is the first approved oral prostacyclin therapy for PAH in the United States. We anticipate that it will face competition with existing oral PAH therapies, and will be regarded as a less invasive and more convenient alternative therapy to Tyvaso and Remodulin. The use of available oral therapies could delay many patients' need for inhaled or infused prostacyclin therapy. As a result, the availability of oral therapies affects demand for our inhaled and infused products. 

Orenitram faces competition from Uptravi, which is indicated to delay disease progression and reduce the risk of hospitalization for PAH. This indication may provide a competitive advantage against Orenitram, which is indicated to improve exercise capacity. As noted above, however, Uptravi is an oral IP prostacyclin receptor agonist, a new class of therapy that addresses PAH through the prostacyclin pathway. While prostacyclin analogues such as Orenitram broadly mimic the effect of prostacyclin, IP prostacyclin receptor agonists bind selectively to the IP receptor, one of several prostacyclin receptors. In addition, Orenitram's label allows physicians flexibility to titrate each patient's dosing up to a level according to tolerability, without any stated maximum. By contrast, Uptravi's label limits uptitration to a specific maximum dose. 

We will also likely face competition from generic pharmaceutical companies in the future. For example, two generic companies filed ANDAs requesting FDA approval to market a generic version of Remodulin. We settled patent litigation with both companies, and our settlement agreements will allow Sandoz and Teva to launch generic versions of Remodulin in June 2018 and December 2018, respectively. Generic companies have filed ANDAs requesting FDA approval to market generic versions of Tyvaso and Orenitram. For details, see the sections below entitled Governmental Regulation&#151;Hatch-Waxman Act , Item 3&#151;Legal Proceedings , and Part II, Item 9B&#151;Other Information . In addition, certain Revatio patents expired in 2012, leading several manufacturers to launch generic formulations of sildenafil citrate, which physicians could prescribe for the treatment of PAH. Generic sildenafil citrate's lower price, relative to Adcirca, could erode Adcirca's market share and limit its growth potential. Although we believe Adcirca's once-daily dosing regimen is an appealing alternative to generic sildenafil citrate's dosing regimen of three times per day, we expect government payers and private insurance companies to favor over time the use of the less expensive generic sildenafil citrate instead of Adcirca. The U.S. patent for Adcirca for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension will expire in November 2017, following which we expect to see generic competition for Adcirca. 

We compete with the developers, manufacturers and distributors of all of the PAH products noted above for customers, funding, access to licenses, personnel, third-party collaborators, product development and commercialization. Almost all of these companies have substantially greater financial, marketing, sales, distribution and technical resources, and more experience in research and development, product development, manufacturing and marketing, clinical trials and regulatory matters, than we have. 

Governmental Regulation 

Pharmaceutical Product Approval Process 

The research, development, testing, manufacture, promotion, marketing, distribution, sampling, storage, approval, labeling, record keeping, post-approval monitoring and reporting, and import and export of pharmaceutical products (drugs or biological products, hereinafter collectively drugs) are extensively regulated by governmental agencies in the United States and in other countries. In the United States, failure to comply with requirements under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDC Act), the Public Health Service Act (PHSA), and other federal statutes and regulations, may subject a company to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, such as FDA refusal to approve pending NDAs or BLAs, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, civil penalties, and criminal prosecution. 

Satisfaction of FDA pre-market approval requirements typically takes many years, and the actual time required may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product or disease. Drugs are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA in the United States, the EMA in the EU and similar regulatory authorities in other countries. The steps ordinarily required before a new drug may be marketed in the United States, which are similar to steps required in most other countries, include: 

&#149; Preclinical laboratory tests, preclinical studies in animals, formulation studies and the submission to the FDA of an investigational new drug application (IND) for a new drug, which must become effective before clinical testing may commence; &#149; Clinical studies in healthy volunteers; &#149; Clinical studies in patients to explore safety, efficacy and dose-response characteristics; &#149; Adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the drug for each indication; 22 

&#149; The submission of an NDA or BLA to the FDA; and &#149; FDA review and approval of the NDA or BLA prior to any commercial sale or shipment of the drug. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry and formulation, as well as animal studies to explore toxicity and for proof-of-concept. The conduct of the preclinical tests must comply with federal regulations and requirements including good laboratory practices. In the United States, the results of preclinical testing are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, along with other information including information about product chemistry, manufacturing and controls and a proposed clinical trial protocol. Long-term preclinical tests, such as animal tests of reproductive toxicity and carcinogenicity, may continue after the IND is submitted. Absent FDA objection within 30 days after submission of an IND, the IND becomes effective and the clinical trial proposed in the IND may begin. At any time during this 30-day period or at any time thereafter, the FDA may halt, temporarily or permanently, a clinical trial. The IND process may be extremely costly and may substantially delay development of our products. Moreover, positive results of preclinical tests will not necessarily indicate positive results in clinical trials. 

Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational new drug or biologic to healthy volunteers or patients under the supervision of a qualified investigator. Clinical trials must be conducted: (1) in compliance with federal regulations; (2) in compliance with good clinical practices (GCP), an international standard meant to protect the rights and health of patients and to define the roles of clinical trial sponsors, administrators, and monitors; and (3) under protocols detailing the objectives of the trial, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol involving testing on U.S. patients and subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. 

The FDA may order the temporary or permanent discontinuation of a clinical trial at any time or impose other sanctions if it believes that the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with FDA requirements or presents an unacceptable risk to the clinical trial patients. The study protocol and informed consent information for patients in clinical trials must also be approved by an institutional review board (IRB). An IRB may also require the clinical trial at a site to be halted temporarily or permanently for failure to comply with the IRB's requirements, or may impose other conditions. 

Clinical trials in support of an NDA or a BLA are typically conducted in sequential phases, but the phases may overlap. During phase I, the initial introduction of the drug into healthy human subjects or patients, the drug is tested to assess metabolism, pharmacokinetics, pharmacological actions, side effects associated with increasing doses, and, if possible, early evidence on effectiveness. Phase II usually involves studies in a limited patient population to assess the efficacy of the drug in specific, targeted indications, assess tolerance and optimal dosage and identify possible adverse effects and safety risks. If a compound is found to be potentially effective and to have an acceptable safety profile in phase II evaluations, then a meeting may be requested at the end of phase II to determine the safety of proceeding to phase III. Phase III trials, also called pivotal studies, major studies or advanced clinical trials, are undertaken to demonstrate clinical efficacy and safety in a larger number of patients, typically at geographically diverse clinical study sites, and to permit the FDA to evaluate the overall benefit-risk relationship of the drug and to provide adequate information for the labeling of the drug. Phase IV studies are often conducted following marketing approval, in order to meet regulatory requirements or to provide additional data relating to the use of the drug. 

After successful completion of the required clinical testing, an NDA or a BLA is typically submitted to the FDA in the United States, and an MAA is typically submitted to the EMA in the EU. FDA approval of the NDA or BLA is required before marketing of the product may begin in the United States. The NDA or BLA must include the results of all preclinical, clinical and other testing and a compilation of data relating to the product's pharmacology, chemistry, manufacture, and controls. 

The cost of preparing and submitting an NDA or BLA is substantial. Under federal law, the submission of most NDAs and BLAs is additionally subject to a substantial application fee, currently exceeding $2.3 million, and the manufacturer and/or sponsor of an approved NDA or BLA is also subject to annual product and establishment fees, currently exceeding $114,000 per product and $585,000 per establishment. These fees are typically increased annually. However, the application fees may be waived for orphan drugs if certain requirements are met. 

The FDA has 60 days from its receipt of an NDA or a BLA to determine whether the application will be accepted for filing based on the agency's threshold determination that it is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review. The FDA may instead ask for additional information, in which case, the application must be amended and resubmitted with the requested information. The FDA has agreed to certain performance goals in the review of NDAs. Most such applications for non-priority drugs are reviewed within ten to twelve months, while most applications for priority review drugs are reviewed in six to eight months. Priority review can be applied to drugs that the FDA determines offer major advances in treatment, or provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists. For biologics, priority review is further limited to drugs intended to treat a serious or life-threatening disease. The review process may be extended by the FDA for three additional months to consider certain information submitted during FDA review, including information intended to clarify information already provided or to address any deficiencies identified in the submission. The FDA may also refer applications for novel pharmaceutical products or pharmaceutical products that present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee, typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it generally follows such recommendations. During the review process, the FDA also reviews the drug's product labeling to ensure that appropriate information is communicated to health care professionals and consumers. In addition, before approving an NDA or a BLA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP. Additionally, the FDA will inspect the facility or the facilities at which the drug is manufactured. The FDA will not approve the product unless compliance with the FDA's current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) and GCP is satisfactory and the NDA or BLA contains data that provide substantial evidence that the pharmaceutical product is safe and effective for purposes of the indication studied. 

In the United States, after the FDA evaluates the NDA or BLA and the manufacturing facilities, the FDA may issue either an approval letter or a complete response letter. A complete response letter generally outlines the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing or information in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. If and when those conditions have been addressed to the FDA's satisfaction in a resubmission of the NDA or BLA, the FDA will issue an approval letter. The FDA has committed to reviewing such resubmissions in two or six months depending on the type of information included. A Class 1 resubmission may contain only limited information such as labeling, safety updates, stability updates, or minor analysis updates or clarifying information and is subject to a two-month review period. All other resubmissions are categorized as Class 2 and are subject to a six-month review period. Even after such a resubmission, the FDA may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval. 

An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. As a condition of NDA or BLA approval, the FDA may require a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (REMS) to help ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the potential risks. A REMS can include medication guides, communication plans for healthcare professionals, and elements to assure safe use (ETASU). ETASU can include, but are not limited to, special training or certification for prescribing or dispensing, dispensing only under certain circumstances, special monitoring, and the use of patient registries. The requirement for a REMS can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the drug. To continue marketing our products 

after approval, applicable regulations require us to maintain a positive risk-benefit profile, maintain regulatory applications through periodic reports to regulatory authorities, fulfill pharmacovigilance requirements, maintain manufacturing facilities according to cGMP requirements, and successfully complete regulatory agency inspections, among other requirements. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections. Once granted, product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or problems are identified following initial marketing. 

Disclosure of Clinical Trial Information 

Sponsors of clinical trials of FDA-regulated drugs and other products are required to register and disclose certain clinical trial information related to the product, patient population, phase of investigation, study sites and investigators, and other aspects of the clinical trial. This clinical trial information is then made public as part of the sponsor's registration. Sponsors are also obligated to disclose the results of their clinical trials after completion. Competitors may use this publicly-available information to gain knowledge regarding the progress of development programs. 

Orphan Drugs 

Under the Orphan Drug Act, an applicant can request the FDA to designate a product as an "orphan drug" in the United States if the drug is intended to treat a rare disease or condition affecting fewer than 200,000 people in the United States. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an NDA or BLA. After the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the generic identity of the drug and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. The first NDA or BLA applicant to receive orphan drug designation and FDA approval for a particular active ingredient to treat a particular disease via a particular delivery method is entitled to a seven-year exclusive marketing period in the United States. During the seven-year period, the FDA may not approve any other application to market the same drug for the same disease, except in limited circumstances such as (1) a showing of clinical superiority to the product with orphan drug exclusivity, meaning that it has greater effectiveness or safety, or provides a major contribution to patient care (such as a change in delivery system); or (2) or the inability of the NDA or BLA holder for the product with orphan drug exclusivity to assure availability of sufficient quantities of the drug to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition. Orphan drug exclusivity does not prevent the FDA from approving a different drug for the same disease or condition, or the same drug for a different disease or condition. Among the other benefits of orphan drug designation are tax credits for certain research and a waiver of the NDA or BLA application user fee. 

The FDA granted orphan drug designation for the active ingredient treprostinil for the treatment of PAH as a continuous infusion. However, this designation does not preclude us from seeking orphan drug designation for other treprostinil formulations or routes of administration to treat PAH, or for treprostinil used to treat other orphan diseases. In order for the FDA to grant orphan drug designation for other formulations or routes of administration of treprostinil to treat PAH, we must demonstrate that such new formulation or route of administration is clinically superior to the formulation or route of administration previously granted orphan drug designation. The FDA has granted orphan drug designation for Tyvaso and Unituxin. A request for orphan drug designation for Orenitram is pending. 

Pediatric Information 

Under the Pediatric Research Equity Act of 2007 (PREA), NDAs, BLAs and supplements to NDAs and BLAs must contain data to assess the safety and effectiveness of the drug for the claimed indication(s) in all relevant pediatric subpopulations and to support dosing and administration for each such pediatric subpopulation for which the drug is safe and effective. The FDA may grant deferrals for 

submission of data or full or partial waivers. Unless otherwise required by regulation, the PREA does not apply to any drug for an indication for which orphan drug designation has been granted. 

The Best Pharmaceuticals For Children Act (BPCA) provides NDA holders a six-month extension of any exclusivity, patent or non-patent, for a drug if certain conditions are met. Conditions for exclusivity include the FDA's determination that information relating to the use of a new drug in the pediatric population may produce health benefits in that population, the FDA making a written request for pediatric studies, and the applicant agreeing to perform, and reporting on, the requested studies within the requested time frame. Applications under the BPCA are treated as priority applications, with all of the benefits that designation confers. 

Hatch-Waxman Act 

The Hatch-Waxman Act (also known as the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act) was passed in 1984 to encourage research and development of new drugs and competition between brand and generic pharmaceutical companies. It created a faster approval process for generic drugs, called the ANDA, while providing protection to brand pharmaceuticals by extending their patent protection, in some cases, to compensate for patent life lost during the product development and approval process and providing periods of market exclusivity to encourage continuing research on, for example, new uses, strengths or dosage forms for existing drugs. 

In seeking approval of a drug through an NDA, applicants are required to submit to the FDA each patent whose claims cover the applicant's product or FDA-approved method of using this product. Upon approval of a drug, each of the patents listed in the application is then published in the FDA's Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, commonly known as the Orange Book. Drugs listed in the Orange Book can, in turn, be cited by potential competitors in support of approval of an ANDA. Generally, an ANDA provides for marketing of a drug product that has the same active ingredients in the same strength(s), route of administration, and dosage form as the listed drug and has been shown through bioequivalence testing to be therapeutically equivalent to the listed drug. ANDA applicants are not required to conduct or submit results of preclinical or clinical tests to prove the safety or effectiveness of their drug product, other than the requirement for bioequivalence testing. Drugs approved in this way are commonly referred to as "generic equivalents" to the listed drug, and can often be substituted by pharmacists under prescriptions written for the original listed drug. 

The ANDA applicant is required to certify to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the approved product in the FDA's Orange Book. Specifically, the applicant must certify that: (1) the required patent information has not been filed; (2) the listed patent has expired; (3) the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or (4) the listed patent is invalid or will not be infringed by the new product. A certification that the new product will not infringe the already approved product's listed patents or that such patents are invalid is called a Paragraph IV certification. If the applicant does not challenge the listed patents, the ANDA application will not be approved until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired. Alternatively, for a patent covering an approved method of use, an ANDA applicant may submit a statement to the FDA that the company is not seeking approval for the covered use. 

If the ANDA applicant has submitted a Paragraph IV certification to the FDA, the applicant must also send notice of the Paragraph IV certification to the NDA and patent holders once the ANDA has been accepted for filing by the FDA. The NDA and patent holders may then initiate a patent infringement lawsuit in response to the notice of the Paragraph IV certification. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days of the receipt of a Paragraph IV certification automatically prevents the FDA from approving the ANDA until the earlier of 30 months, expiration of the patent, settlement of the lawsuit or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the ANDA applicant. 

The ANDA application also will not receive approval until any non-patent exclusivity, such as exclusivity for obtaining approval of an NDA for a new chemical entity, has expired. Federal law provides a period of five years following approval of a drug containing no previously approved active moiety, during which ANDAs for generic versions of those drugs cannot be submitted unless the submission contains a Paragraph IV certification, in which case the submission may be made four years following the original product approval. Following approval of an application to market a drug that contains previously approved active ingredients in a new dosage form, route of administration or combination, or for a new condition of use that was required to be supported by new clinical trials conducted by or for the sponsor, the FDC Act provides for an exclusivity period of three years, during which the FDA cannot grant effective approval of an ANDA for such new condition of use, dosage form or strength that meets certain statutory requirements. Both of the five-year and three-year exclusivity periods, as well as any unexpired patents listed in the Orange Book for the listed drug, can be extended by six months if the FDA grants the NDA sponsor a period of pediatric exclusivity based on studies submitted by the sponsor in response to a written request. 

The Hatch-Waxman Act provides that patent terms may be extended to compensate for some of the patent life that is lost during the FDA regulatory review period for a product. This extension period would generally be one-half the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of an NDA, plus all of the time between the submission date of an NDA and its approval, subject to a maximum extension of five years. Similar patent term extensions are available under European laws. Following FDA approval, we filed a patent term extension application with the United States Patent and Trademark Office for our patent covering the method of treating PAH using treprostinil. The application was approved in February 2005 with the maximum patent term extension of five years, and the patent expired in October 2014. 

We have received Paragraph IV certification letters from Watson and Actavis advising that they have submitted ANDAs to the FDA requesting approval to market generic versions of Tyvaso and Orenitram, respectively. We have also settled litigation relating to Paragraph IV certification letters from Sandoz and Teva advising that each has submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting approval to market generic versions of Remodulin. Under our settlement agreements with Sandoz and Teva, they will be permitted to market their generic versions of Remodulin in the Unites States beginning in June 2018 and December 2018 respectively, or earlier in certain circumstances. For further details, please see Note 19&#151; Litigation , to our consolidated financial statements, Item 3&#151;Legal Proceedings and Part II, Item 9B&#151;Other Information . 

Section 505(b)(2) New Drug Applications 

Most drug products (other than biological products) obtain FDA marketing approval pursuant to an NDA submitted under Section 505(b)(1) of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDCA), or an ANDA. A third alternative is a special type of NDA submitted under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA, commonly referred to as a Section 505(b)(2) NDA, which enables the applicant to rely, in part, on the FDA's finding of safety and efficacy data for an existing product, or published literature, in support of its application. 

Section 505(b)(2) NDAs may provide an alternate path to FDA approval for new or improved formulations or new uses of previously approved products. Section 505(b)(2) permits the filing of an NDA in which the applicant relies, at least in part, on information from studies made to show whether a drug is safe or effective that were not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference or use. A Section 505(b)(2) applicant may eliminate the need to conduct certain preclinical or clinical studies, if it can establish that reliance on studies conducted for a previously-approved product is scientifically appropriate. The FDA may also require companies to perform additional studies or measurements to support the change from the approved product. The FDA may then approve the new product candidate for all or some of the labeled indications for which 

the referenced product has been approved, as well as for any new indication for which the Section 505(b)(2) NDA applicant has submitted data. 

To the extent that the Section 505(b)(2) applicant is relying on prior FDA findings of safety and efficacy, the applicant is required to certify to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the previously approved product in the Orange Book to the same extent that an ANDA applicant would. Thus, approval of a Section 505(b)(2) NDA can be delayed until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired, until any non-patent exclusivity, such as exclusivity for obtaining approval of a new chemical entity, listed in the Orange Book for the referenced product has expired, and, in the case of a Paragraph IV certification and subsequent patent infringement suit, until the earlier of 30 months, settlement of the lawsuit or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the Section 505(b)(2) applicant. 

Other Regulatory Requirements 

Once an NDA or a BLA is approved, the product will be subject to continuing regulations. For instance, the FDA closely regulates the post-approval marketing, labeling and advertising of prescription drugs, including the standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising, off-label promotion, industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities and promotional activities involving the internet. Pharmaceutical products may be marketed only for their approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of their approved labeling. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have engaged in off-label promotion may be subject to significant liability. 

Certain changes to the conditions established in an approved application, including changes in indications, labeling, equipment, or manufacturing processes or facilities, will require submission and FDA approval of an NDA or BLA or supplement thereto before the change can be implemented. An NDA or BLA supplement for a new indication typically requires clinical data similar to that in the original application, and the FDA uses the same procedures and actions in reviewing supplements as it does in reviewing NDAs or BLAs. 

Adverse event reporting and submission of periodic reports continue to be required following FDA approval of an NDA or a BLA. The FDA also may require post-marketing testing, including phase IV clinical studies, risk minimization action plans, and surveillance to monitor the effects of an approved product or may place conditions on an approval that could restrict the distribution or use of the product. In addition, quality control as well as drug manufacture, packaging, and labeling procedures must continue to conform to cGMP requirements. Manufacturers and certain of their contractors are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and these state agencies, to assess compliance with cGMP requirements. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the areas of production and quality control to maintain compliance with cGMP requirements. Regulatory authorities may withdraw product approvals or request product recalls if a company fails to comply with regulatory standards or if previously unrecognized problems are subsequently discovered. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events or problems with manufacturing processes of unanticipated severity or frequency, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may also result in (1) revisions to the approved labeling to add new safety information; (2) imposition of post-market studies or clinical trials to assess new safety risks; or (3) imposition of distribution or other restrictions under a REMS program. Other potential consequences include, among other things, (1) restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product; (2) fines, warning letters or holds on post-approval clinical trials; (3) refusal of the FDA to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals; (4) product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; or (5) injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. 

Marketing Pharmaceutical Products Outside the United States 

Outside of the United States, our ability to market our products is also contingent upon receiving marketing authorizations from regulatory authorities. The foreign regulatory approval process may include some or all of the risks associated with the FDA review and approval process set forth above, and the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and marketing authorization vary widely from country to country. 

In the EU, marketing authorizations may be submitted through a centralized body or through a decentralized/mutual recognition or a national level process. The centralized procedure is mandatory for the approval of certain products, such as officially designated orphan medicines and medicines derived from biotechnology and high technology processes, and may be available at the applicant's option for other products that are a significant therapeutic, scientific or technical innovation or for which approval would be in the interest of public health. The centralized procedure provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid in the EEA, which consists of the EU member countries and Norway, Iceland, and Lichtenstein. The decentralized/mutual recognition procedures are available for all medicinal products that are not subject to the centralized procedure. Each EU member country has its own procedure for approval. A company may use the decentralized procedure to submit applications for marketing authorization in more than one EU country simultaneously for a product that has not previously been authorized in an EU country. In addition, the mutual recognition procedure provides for mutual recognition of national approval decisions, changes existing procedures for national approvals and establishes procedures for coordinated EU actions on products, suspensions and withdrawals. Under this procedure, the holder of a national marketing authorization for which mutual recognition is sought may submit an application to one or more EU member countries, certify that the dossier is identical to that on which the first approval was based, or explain any differences and certify that identical dossiers are being submitted to all EU member countries for which recognition is sought. Within 90 days of receiving the application and assessment report, each EU member country is required to decide whether to recognize approval. The procedure encourages member states to work with applicants and other regulatory authorities to resolve disputes concerning mutual recognition. Arbitration may be initiated when member countries fail to reach agreement. Following receipt of marketing authorization in an EU member country, the applicant is then usually (depending on the country) required to engage in pricing discussions and negotiations with a separate prescription pricing authority in that country. Commercial sales typically only commence in a country once pricing approval has been obtained. 

To secure European regulatory approvals for subcutaneous Remodulin for PAH, we used the mutual recognition process. Under the rules then applicable, centralized filing was not required and we perceived the decentralized/mutual recognition procedure to be the most effective means for approval. We filed our first MAA in France in February 2001. Review of our application was completed in 2005. As a result, Remodulin was approved in 23 member countries of the EEA under the mutual recognition process described above. We withdrew applications in Spain, the United Kingdom and Ireland and are currently evaluating resubmitting applications in Spain and Ireland. In December 2011, we received approval for intravenous Remodulin in all of the 23 EEA member nations where subcutaneous Remodulin is approved. 

To secure European regulatory approval for Tyvaso, we submitted an MAA to the EMA via the centralized process in 2008. Regulations in Europe have changed since we made our initial filing for Remodulin and all therapies for orphan diseases must now use the centralized process. In February 2010, we withdrew our MAA from consideration by the EMA, and do not currently intend to resubmit it as a standalone treatment for PAH due to the EMA's major objection related to findings of non-compliance with good clinical practice at two clinical sites. The EMA stated that these findings would preclude a recommendation for approval of Tyvaso in the EU. The EMA had no major objections at the time of withdrawal related to the safety or efficacy of Tyvaso. 

Biologics 

Biological products used for the prevention, treatment, or cure of a disease, or condition, of a human being are subject to regulation under the FDC Act and the PHSA. Biological products are approved for marketing via a BLA that follows an application process and approval requirements that are very similar to those for NDAs. To help reduce the increased risk of the introduction of adventitious agents, the PHSA emphasizes the importance of manufacturing control for products whose attributes cannot be precisely defined. The PHSA also provides authority to the FDA to immediately suspend licenses in situations where there exists a danger to public health, to prepare or procure products in the event of shortages and critical public health needs, and to authorize the creation and enforcement of regulations to prevent the introduction, or spread, of communicable diseases in the United States. 

After a BLA is approved, the product may also be subject to official lot release. As part of the manufacturing process, the manufacturer is required to perform certain tests on each lot of the product before it is released for distribution. If the product is subject to official lot release by the FDA, the manufacturer submits samples of each lot of product to the FDA together with a release protocol showing a summary of the history of manufacture of the lot and the results of all of the manufacturer's tests performed on the lot. The FDA may also perform certain confirmatory tests on lots of some products, such as viral vaccines, before releasing the lots for distribution by the manufacturer. In addition, the FDA conducts laboratory research related to the regulatory standards on the safety, purity, potency, and effectiveness of biological products. As with drugs, after approval of biologics, manufacturers must address any safety issues that arise, are subject to recalls or a halt in manufacturing, and are subject to periodic inspection after approval. 

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (PPACA), included a subtitle called the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009, or BPCI Act, which created an abbreviated approval pathway for biological products shown to be similar to, or interchangeable with, an FDA-licensed reference biological product. This is conceptually similar to the Hatch-Waxman Act in that it attempts to minimize duplicative testing. Biosimilarity requires that there be no clinically meaningful differences between the biological product and the reference product in terms of safety, purity, and potency must be shown through analytical studies, animal studies, and at least one clinical study absent a waiver. In addition, only minor differences in clinically inactive components are allowable in biosimilar products. An interchangeable biological product is a biosimilar to an FDA-approved reference product that meets additional standards for interchangeability. Interchangeability requires that a product must demonstrate that it can be expected to produce the same clinical results as the reference product and, for products administered multiple times, the biologic and the reference biologic may be switched after one has been previously administered without increasing safety risks or risks of diminished efficacy relative to exclusive use of the reference biologic. However, intricacies associated with the larger, and often more complex, structures of biological products, as well as the processes by which such products are manufactured, pose significant hurdles to implementation that are still being addressed by the FDA. In 2015, the FDA approved the first biosimilar in the United States and published a proposed rule and guidance documents relating to various provisions of the BPCI Act. For example, the FDA addressed the naming conventions and labeling of biosimilar products, including whether and how such labeling should include information from reference product labeling and identify a product's approval through the biosimilar pathway. The FDA suggested that shared non-proprietary names may not be appropriate for all biological products, noting that the naming conventions could improve pharmacovigilance, prevent inadvertent substitution among products which have not been determined to be interchangeable, avoid inaccurate perceptions of the safety and effectiveness of biological products based on their licensure pathway, and provide a consistent mechanism for healthcare professionals to 

identify biological products. The FDA also released guidance recommendations relating to the clinical, scientific, and quality data required to demonstrate biosimilarity. 

A reference biologic is granted twelve years of exclusivity from the time of first licensure of the reference product. The first biologic product submitted under the abbreviated approval pathway that is determined to be interchangeable with the reference product has exclusivity against other biologics submitted under the abbreviated approval pathway for the lesser of (1) one year after first commercial marketing; (2) eighteen months after approval of the initial application if there is no legal challenge; (3) eighteen months after the resolution in the applicant's favor of a lawsuit challenging the biologics' patents if an application has been submitted; or (4) 42 months after the application has been approved if a lawsuit is ongoing within the 42 month period. 

Since the passage of the BPCI Act, there have been proposals to modify the exclusivity provisions. In the budget for fiscal year 2016, the Obama administration reasserted a proposal from prior years to cut the 12-year period of exclusivity down to seven years. The administration also reasserted a proposal to prohibit additional periods of exclusivity due to minor changes in product formulations. In October 2015, the United States agreed to the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), an agreement with 11 other countries that addresses a variety of trade and economic issues. The TPP includes a provision that would require the signatory countries to provide a minimum of five years of exclusivity, and in some instances, eight years of exclusivity, to biological products. To come into effect, the TPP will require a requisite number of signatory countries to ratify the agreement; in the United States, such ratification, if it occurs, will be performed by Congress. It is possible that Congress could seek to harmonize the exclusivity periods in the TPP and the BPCI Act, or take other measures to modify or eliminate periods of exclusivity for biosimilar and interchangeable products. 

Because biologically sourced raw materials are subject to unique contamination risks, their use may be restricted in some countries. 

Cell and Tissue Based Biologics 

Manufacturers of cell and tissue based products must comply with the FDA's current good tissue practices (cGTP), which are FDA regulations that govern the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the manufacture of such products. The primary intent of the cGTP requirements is to ensure that cell and tissue based products are manufactured in a manner designed to prevent the introduction, transmission and spread of communicable diseases. Cell and tissue based products may also be subject to the same approval standards, including demonstration of safety and efficacy, as other biologic and drug products, if they meet certain criteria such as if the cells or tissues are more than minimally manipulated or if they are intended for a non-homologous use (a use different from the cell's origin). In 2015, the FDA published guidance documents relating to topics such as donor screening, adverse reaction reporting, and the applicability of premarket approval and clearance requirements to cell and tissue based products. Following the numerous public comments on these draft guidance documents, the FDA scheduled a public hearing for April 2016. 

U.S. Regulation of Medical Devices 

Medical devices also may be subject to FDA approval and extensive regulation under the FDC Act. Under the FDC Act, medical devices are classified into one of three classes: Class I, Class II, or Class III. The classification of a device into one of these three classes generally depends on the degree of risk associated with the medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. 

Class I devices are those for which safety and effectiveness can be assured by adherence to a set of general controls. These general controls include compliance with the applicable portions of the FDA's Quality System Regulation (QSR), which sets forth good manufacturing practice requirements; facility 

registration and product listing; reporting of adverse medical events; truthful and non-misleading labeling; and promotion of the device only for its cleared or approved intended uses. Class II devices are also subject to these general controls and to any other special controls as deemed necessary by the FDA to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device. Most Class I devices require review and clearance by the FDA through the so-called 510(k) pre-market notification procedure. A Class III device requires approval of a premarket approval application (PMA), an expensive, lengthy and uncertain process that can require many years to complete. Most Class II and Class III medical devices may only be marketed in the United States if the FDA has approved a PMA application for the device or cleared the device in response to a 510(k) submission. There is also an alternative pathway to approval for low or moderate risk devices that are not classified and for which no predicate device exists, known as de novo classification. 

When 510(k) clearance is sought, a sponsor must submit a pre-market notification demonstrating that the proposed device is substantially equivalent to a previously marketed device, also referred to as a "predicate" device. If the FDA agrees that the proposed device is substantially equivalent to the predicate device, then 510(k) clearance to market will be granted. After a device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or could require pre-market approval. In recent years, the FDA has issued guidance recommendations relating to aspects of the FDA's 510(k) review process, including the use of multiple predicates and the content of 510(k) summaries, and the criteria the FDA uses to determine whether a 510(k) satisfies the minimum threshold of acceptability to be accepted for substantive review. 

Clinical trials are almost always required to support a PMA and are sometimes required for a 510(k) pre-market notification. These trials generally require FDA approval by submitting an application for an investigational device exemption, or IDE application. An IDE application must be supported by preclinical data, such as animal and laboratory testing results, which show that the device is safe to test in humans and that the study protocols are scientifically sound. Studies of devices that pose a significant risk require approval from both the FDA and an Institutional Review Board (IRB) prior to initiation of the study. A "nonsignificant" risk device study does not require submission of an IDE application to the FDA but does require IRB approval prior to initiation of the study. Nonsignificant risk device studies must comply with abbreviated IDE requirements. 

Both before and after a medical device is commercially distributed, manufacturers and marketers of the device have ongoing responsibilities under FDA regulations. The FDA reviews design and manufacturing practices, labeling and record keeping, and manufacturers' required reports of adverse experiences and other information to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. Device manufacturers are subject to periodic and unannounced inspection by the FDA for compliance with the QSR, current good manufacturing practice requirements that govern the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, servicing, labeling, storage, installation, and distribution of all finished medical devices intended for human use. 

If the FDA finds that a manufacturer has failed to comply or that a medical device is ineffective or poses an unreasonable health risk, it can institute or seek a wide variety of enforcement actions and remedies, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe actions such as: 

&#149; fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; &#149; recall or seizure of products; &#149; operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; &#149; refusing requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA approval of new products; &#149; withdrawing 510(k) clearances or PMA approvals already granted; and 32 

&#149; criminal prosecution. The FDA also has the authority to require repair, replacement or refund of the cost of a medical device under certain circumstances. 

The FDA also administers certain controls over the import and export of medical devices to and from the United States. Additionally, each foreign country subjects such medical devices to its own regulatory requirements. In the EU, a single regulatory approval process has been created, and approval is represented by the CE Mark. 

A combination product is a product composed of a combination of a drug, device, or biological product. Each combination product is assigned to a specific FDA center based on which constituent part of the combination product provides the primary mode of action. In 2015, the FDA released draft guidance recommendations relating to the application of cGMP requirements to combination products. The nebulizer used with our Tyvaso Inhalation System was included in our NDA for Tyvaso as a drug-device combination product, and was cleared by the FDA subject to compliance with the QSR as it applies to combination products. In 2012, we received FDA approval for a modified Tyvaso Inhalation System using an updated nebulizer (TD-100) based on the results of the completion of the QSR compliance commitments. 

Government Reimbursement of Pharmaceutical Products 

In the United States, many independent third-party health plans, and government health care programs, pay for patient use of our commercial products. Medicare is the federal program that provides health care benefits to senior citizens and certain disabled and chronically ill persons. Medicaid is the federal program jointly funded and administered by the states to provide health care benefits to certain indigent persons. Unituxin is administered entirely as an in-patient therapy and would typically be reimbursed under Medicare Part A. However, because Unituxin is indicated for treatment of a pediatric cancer, Medicare beneficiaries are unlikely to receive this treatment. The purchase prices for Remodulin and Tyvaso are reimbursed within the Medicare Part B program. The Medicare Part B contractors who administer the program provide reimbursement for Remodulin and Tyvaso according to statutory guidelines. In return for the inclusion of our commercial products Adcirca and Orenitram in the Medicare Part D program, we have agreed to pay rebates to Medicare Part D plan sponsors that reimburse these products. The state Medicaid programs also reimburse the cost of our commercial products at reimbursement rates established by statutory guidelines. Because Remodulin, Tyvaso, Adcirca, Orenitram and Unituxin are covered and reimbursed by state Medicaid programs, we are mandated to pay a rebate to those state Medicaid programs. We are required by government contract to sell our commercial products under contracts with the Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, Public Health Service and numerous other federal agencies as well as certain hospitals that are designated as 340B covered entities (entities designated by federal programs to receive drugs at discounted prices) at prices that are significantly below the price we charge to our specialty distributors. These programs and contracts are highly regulated and impose restrictions on our business. Failure to comply with these regulations and restrictions could result in a loss of our ability to continue receiving reimbursement for our drugs, exclusion of our products from reimbursement under the federal healthcare programs, or debarment, and expose us to liability under federal and state false claims laws. We estimate that between 35-50% of Remodulin, Tyvaso, Adcirca and Orenitram sales are reimbursed under the Medicare and Medicaid programs. 

Anti-Kickback, False Claims Laws and The Prescription Drug Marketing Act 

In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing pharmaceutical, biological and medical device products, several other types of state and federal laws have been applied to restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical and medical device industries in recent years. These laws include 

anti-kickback statutes and false claims statutes. The federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of, or referring an individual for the furnishing of, any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Violations of the anti-kickback statute are punishable by imprisonment, criminal fines, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution or other regulatory sanctions, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. 

The federal False Claims Act prohibits any person from, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement material to a false claim. Many pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under the False Claims Act for allegedly inflating drug prices they report to pricing services, which in turn were used by the government to set Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, and for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. In addition, companies have been prosecuted under the False Claims Act on the basis of allegations relating to marketing practices, including off-label promotion. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback statute and False Claims Act, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. 

As part of the sales and marketing process, pharmaceutical companies frequently provide samples of approved drugs to physicians. The Prescription Drug Marketing Act (PDMA) imposes requirements and limitations upon the distribution of drugs and drug samples, and prohibits states from licensing distributors of prescription drugs unless the state licensing program meets certain federal guidelines that include minimum standards for storage and handling, as well as record keeping requirements for information regarding sample requests and distribution. The PDMA sets forth civil and criminal penalties for violations. In addition, PDMA requires manufacturers and distributors to submit similar drug sample information to FDA. 

Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 

PPACA is intended to expand healthcare coverage within the United States. Several provisions of the law, which have varying effective dates, have impacted us and have increased certain of our costs. PPACA imposes an annual fee on pharmaceutical manufacturers, based on the manufacturer's sale of branded pharmaceuticals and biologics (excluding orphan drugs) to certain U.S. government programs during the preceding year; expands the 340B drug discount program (excluding orphan drugs) including the creation of new penalties for non-compliance; and includes a 50% discount on brand name drugs for Medicare Part D participants in the coverage gap, or "donut hole." Effective beginning in 2010, the law also revised the definition of "average manufacturer price" for reporting purposes, which could increase the amount of the Medicaid drug rebates paid to states. 

As noted above under Governmental Regulation&#151;Biologics , the PPACA also created a regulatory pathway for the abbreviated approval of biological products that are demonstrated to be "biosimilar" or "interchangeable" with an FDA-approved biological product. In addition, PPACA imposes new annual reporting requirements for pharmaceutical, biological and device manufacturers with regard to 

payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals. In addition, pharmaceutical, biological and device manufacturers are required to report annually investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. Such information was required to be made publicly available by the Secretary of Health and Human Services in a searchable format beginning on September 30, 2014. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to $150,000 per year (and up to $1 million per year for "knowing failures") for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. Further, the PPACA amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statute. A person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of these statutes or specific intent to violate them. In addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act. 

State Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Marketing Laws 

If not preempted by the PPACA, several jurisdictions, including the District of Columbia, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Vermont and West Virginia, require pharmaceutical companies to report expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products and to report gifts and payments to healthcare practitioners in those jurisdictions. Some of these jurisdictions also prohibit various marketing related activities. Still other states require the posting of information relating to clinical studies and their outcomes. In addition, certain states, such as California, Connecticut, Nevada, and Massachusetts, require pharmaceutical companies to implement compliance programs or marketing codes and several other states are considering similar proposals. Compliance with these laws is difficult and time consuming, and companies that do not comply with these state laws face civil penalties or other civil enforcement action. 

Employees 

We had approximately 750 employees as of February 7, 2016. The success of our business is highly dependent on attracting and retaining highly talented and qualified personnel. 

Industry Segments and Geographic Areas 

Since March 2011, our core business has been pharmaceuticals, in which we closely monitor the revenues and gross margins generated by our commercial products. We sell our products in the United States and throughout the rest of the world. The information required by Item 101(b) and 101(d) of Regulation S-K relating to financial information about industry segments and geographical areas, respectively, is contained in Note 17 &#151;Segment Information to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Corporate Website 

Our Internet website address is http://www.unither.com . Our filings on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, Form 3, Form 4, Form 5, Form 8-K and any and all amendments thereto are available free of charge through this internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). They are also available through the SEC at http://www.sec.gov/edgar/searchedgar/companysearch.html . 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

The following is a list, as of February 17, 2016, setting forth certain information regarding our executive officers. Each executive officer holds office until the first meeting of the Board of Directors after the annual meeting of shareholders, and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. Each executive officer's employment will end pursuant to the terms of his or her employment contract. 

Name 

&#160; Age &#160; Position Martine A. Rothblatt, Ph.D., J.D., M.B.A. &#160; &#160; 61 &#160; Chairman, Co-Chief Executive Officer and Director Roger Jeffs, Ph.D. &#160; &#160; 54 &#160; President, Co-Chief Executive Officer and Director David Zaccardelli, Pharm.D. &#160; &#160; 51 &#160; Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer James C. Edgemond &#160; &#160; 48 &#160; Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Paul A. Mahon, J.D. &#160; &#160; 52 &#160; Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary 

&#160; Martine A. Rothblatt, Ph.D., J.D., M.B.A ., founded United Therapeutics in 1996 and has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since its inception. In January 2015, she became United Therapeutics' Co-Chief Executive Officer upon the promotion of Roger Jeffs to Co-Chief Executive Officer. Prior to United Therapeutics, she founded and served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of SiriusXM Satellite Radio. She is a co-inventor on four of our patents pertaining to treprostinil. 

&#160; Roger Jeffs, Ph.D., received his undergraduate degree in chemistry from Duke University and his Ph.D. in pharmacology from the University of North Carolina. Dr. Jeffs joined United Therapeutics in September 1998 as Director of Research, Development and Medical. He was promoted to Vice President of Research, Development and Medical in 2000 and to President and Chief Operating Officer in 2001. In January 2015, Dr. Jeffs was promoted to Co-Chief Executive Officer. From 1993 to 1995, Dr. Jeffs worked at Burroughs Wellcome &#38; Company where he was a member of the clinical research team that developed Flolan, the first FDA-approved therapy for patients with PAH. From 1995 to 1998, Dr. Jeffs worked at Amgen, Inc. where he served as the worldwide clinical leader of the Infectious Disease Program. Dr. Jeffs currently leads our global clinical, commercial, manufacturing, regulatory, medical affairs, pharmacovigilance and business development efforts. 

&#160; David Zaccardelli , Pharm.D., received his doctor of pharmacy from the University of Michigan. Dr. Zaccardelli joined United Therapeutics in 2004 as Vice President, Pharmaceutical Development. He was promoted to Senior Vice President, Pharmaceutical Development in 2006, to Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Development in 2007, Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Development &#38; Operations in April 2008 and to Chief Manufacturing Officer and Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Development in November 2008. In January 2015, Dr. Zaccardelli was promoted to Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. From 1988 to 1996, Dr. Zaccardelli worked at Burroughs Wellcome &#38; Company and Glaxo Wellcome, Inc. in a variety of clinical research positions. He also served as Director of Clinical and Scientific Affairs for Bausch &#38; Lomb Pharmaceuticals, Inc. from 1996 to 1997. Dr. Zaccardelli founded and led a startup company focused on contract pharmaceutical development services from 1997 through 2003. 

&#160; James C. Edgemond joined United Therapeutics in January 2013 as Treasurer and Vice President, Strategic Financial Planning. Mr. Edgemond was promoted to Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer in March 2015. Prior to joining United Therapeutics, he was Vice President, Corporate Controller and Treasurer of Clark Construction Group from November 2008 through January 2013. He also served in a variety of roles at The Corporate Executive Board Company from 1998 to 2008, including most recently as Executive Director, Finance from 2005 to 2008. He began his career as a public accountant 

at KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, where he served in a variety of roles from 1990 through 1998, including most recently as a Senior Manager. 

&#160; Paul A. Mahon, J.D., has served as General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of United Therapeutics since its inception in 1996. In June 2001, Mr. Mahon joined United Therapeutics full-time as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. In November 2003, Mr. Mahon was promoted to Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. Prior to June 2001, he served United Therapeutics, beginning with its formation in 1996, in his capacity as principal and managing partner of a law firm specializing in technology and media law. 

