 Item 1. 

Business 

General 

Univest Corporation of Pennsylvania (the Corporation) is a Pennsylvania corporation organized in 1973 and registered as a bank holding company pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. The Corporation owns all of the capital stock of Univest Bank and Trust Co. (the Bank). The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiary, the Bank. The Corporation&#8217;s and the Bank&#8217;s legal headquarters are located at 14 North Main Street, Souderton, PA 18964. 

The Bank is a Pennsylvania state-chartered bank and trust company. As a state-chartered member bank of the Federal Reserve System, the Bank is regulated primarily by the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities and the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. 

The Bank is engaged in the commercial and consumer banking business and provides a full range of banking and trust services to its customers. The Bank is the parent company of Delview, Inc., which is the parent company of Univest Insurance, Inc., an independent insurance agency, Univest Investments, Inc., a full-service broker-dealer and investment advisory firm and Girard Partners (Girard), a registered investment advisory firm acquired in January 2014. Univest Insurance has four offices in Pennsylvania and one in Maryland. Univest Investments has two offices in Pennsylvania. Girard is headquartered in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania with two satellite offices in Virginia and Florida. The Bank is also the parent company of Univest Capital, Inc., an equipment financing business, and TCG Investment Advisory, a registered investment advisor which provides discretionary investment consulting and management services. Through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, the Bank provides a variety of financial services to individuals, municipalities and businesses throughout its markets of operation. Univest Investments, Inc., Univest Insurance, Inc. and Univest Capital, Inc. were formed to enhance the traditional banking and trust services provided by the Bank, as was the acquisition of Girard Partners. 

At December 31, 2015 , the Corporation has three reportable business segments: Banking, Wealth Management and Insurance. The Corporation determines its segments based primarily upon product and service offerings, through the types of income generated and the regulatory environment. This is strategically how the Corporation operates and has positioned itself in the marketplace. Accordingly, significant operating decisions are based upon analysis of each of these segments. At December 31, 2015 , these segments meet the quantitative thresholds for separate disclosure as a business segment. For more detailed discussion and financial information on the business segments, see Note 23 &#8220;Segment Reporting&#8221; included in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein under Item 8. 

At December 31, 2015 , the Corporation had total assets of $2.9 billion , net loans and leases of $2.2 billion , total deposits of $2.4 billion &#32;and total shareholders&#8217; equity of $361.6 million . 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 , the Corporation and its subsidiaries employed seven hundred and seventeen (717) persons. None of these employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and the Corporation believes it enjoys good relations with its personnel. 

Market Area 

The Corporation is headquartered in Souderton, Pennsylvania, which is located in Southeastern Pennsylvania, approximately thirty-five miles north of Philadelphia. The highest concentration of our deposits and loans are in Montgomery and Bucks counties where twenty-six Bank retail financial service centers are located. The acquisition of Valley Green Bank brought the Corporation into the Philadelphia marketplace with three full-service branches and two administrative offices for loan production. Montgomery and Bucks counties are two of the wealthiest counties in Pennsylvania. Significant types of employment industries include pharmaceuticals, health care, electronics, computer services, insurance, industrial machinery, retailing and meat processing. Major companies throughout the two counties include Merck and Company, Abington Hospital-Jefferson Health, GlaxoSmithKline, Hatfield Quality Meats, Aetna/U.S. Healthcare, St. Mary Medical Center, Giant Food Stores LLC, Doylestown Hospital, Grand View Hospital and Northtec LLC. Unemployment rates at December 2015 were 3.0% in Montgomery County and 3.5% Bucks County, lower than Pennsylvania&#8217;s state unemployment rate of 4.8% and the federal unemployment rate of 5.0%, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. In addition to our hub in Montgomery and Bucks counties, we have commercial lending and insurance offices in the Lehigh Valley and Delaware and Chester counties. These areas currently represent a smaller segment of the Corporation&#8217;s market area. 

The Corporation ranks fifth in market share in Montgomery County with fourteen financial service centers and ninth in Bucks County with twelve financial service centers; with 6% of total combined market share in the two counties according to data provided by SNL Financial. Montgomery County&#8217;s population has grown 3% to 800,000 from the year 2011 to 2015, and is expected to grow another 2% through 2020, while Bucks County&#8217;s population has decreased .9% to 628,000 during the same period, but is expected to grow .5% through 2020, according to SNL Financial. The median age is 40 years and 42 years in Montgomery and Bucks counties, respectively, consistent with the median age of 40 years in Pennsylvania and slightly higher than the median age in the United States of 38 years. County estimates project the median age to increase over the next two decades. The median yearly household income was $81,000 for Montgomery County and $76,000 for Bucks County during 2015 and is expected to increase 8% for Montgomery County and 5% for Bucks County through 2020, according to SNL Financial. The yearly median income for both counties is well above that of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the United States with both at $53,000 during 2015. 

Upon completion of the pending merger with Fox Chase Bancorp anticipated in the third quarter of 2016, the Corporation will expand its physical presence into the New Jersey and Chester County, Pennsylvania marketplaces. 

Competition 

The Corporation&#8217;s service areas are characterized by intense competition for banking business among commercial banks, savings institutions and other financial institutions. The Corporation&#8217;s subsidiary bank actively competes with such banks and financial institutions for local retail and commercial accounts in Bucks, Montgomery and Chester counties and the Lehigh Valley, as well as other financial institutions outside its primary service area. 

In competing with other banks, savings institutions and other financial institutions, the Bank seeks to provide personalized services through management&#8217;s knowledge and awareness of its service area, customers and borrowers. 

Other competitors, including credit unions, consumer finance companies, insurance companies, wealth management providers, leasing companies and mutual funds, compete with certain lending and deposit gathering services and insurance and wealth management services offered by the Bank and its operating segments. 

Supervision and Regulation 

The financial services industry in the United States, particularly entities that are chartered as banks, is highly regulated by federal and state laws that limit the types of businesses in which banks and their holding companies may engage, and which impose significant operating requirements and limitations on banking entities. The discussion below is only a brief summary of some of the significant laws and regulations that affect the Bank and the Corporation, and is not intended to be a complete description of all such laws. 

The Bank is subject to supervision and is regularly examined by the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities and the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. The Bank is also subject to examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 

&#160; 

The Corporation is subject to the provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and is registered pursuant to its provisions. The Corporation is subject to the reporting requirements of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Board); and the Corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is subject to examination by the Board. The Federal Reserve Act limits the amount of credit that a member bank may extend to its affiliates, and the amount of its funds that it may invest in or lend on the collateral of the securities of its affiliates. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, insured banks are subject to the same limitations. 

The Corporation is subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX). SOX adopted new standards of corporate governance and imposed additional requirements on the board of directors and management of public companies. SOX also requires that the chief executive officer and chief financial officer certify the accuracy of periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Pursuant to Section 404 of SOX (SOX 404), the Corporation is required to furnish a report by its management on internal control over financial reporting, identify any material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting and assert that such internal controls are effective. The Corporation has continued to be in compliance with SOX 404 during 2015. The Corporation must maintain effective internal controls, which requires an on-going commitment by management and the Corporation&#8217;s Audit Committee. The process has and will continue to require substantial resources in both financial costs and human capital. 

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act). 

The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law on July 21, 2010. Uncertainty remains as to the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act, which could have a material adverse impact either on the financial services industry as a whole, or on the Corporation&#8217;s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things: 

&#8226; 

Centralized responsibility for consumer financial protection by the creation of a new agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, that has rulemaking authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and has broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws; 

&#8226; 

Increased the FDIC assessment for depository institutions with assets of $10 billion or more, changed the basis for determining FDIC premiums from insured deposits to consolidated assets less tangible capital; and increased the minimum reserve ratio for the deposit insurance fund to 1.35% by September 30, 2020; 

&#8226; 

Permanently increased the federal deposit insurance coverage to $250 thousand and increased the Securities Investor Protection Corporation protection from $100 thousand to $250 thousand; 

&#8226; 

Repealed the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts; 

&#8226; 

Amended the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, &#8220;Regulation E&#8221; to give the Federal Reserve authority to establish rules to limit debit-card interchange fees and rules regarding overdraft fees; 

&#8226; 

Provided for new disclosures and other requirements relating to executive compensation, proxy access by shareholders and corporate governance; 

&#8226; 

Provided for mortgage reform provisions regarding a customer&#8217;s ability to repay, restricting variable-rate lending by requiring the ability to repay be determined for variable-rate loans by using the maximum rate that will apply during the first five years of a variable-rate loan term, and making more loans subject to provisions for higher cost loans, new disclosures, and certain other revisions; and 

&#8226; 

Created a financial stability oversight council responsible for recommending to the Federal Reserve increasingly strict rules for capital, leverage, liquidity, risk management and other requirements as companies grow in size and complexity. 

Basel III 

In July 2013, the federal bank regulatory agencies adopted final rules revising the agencies&#8217; capital adequacy guidelines and prompt corrective action rules, designed to enhance such requirements and implement the revised standards of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, commonly referred to as Basel III. The July 2013 final rules generally implement higher minimum capital requirements, add a new common equity Tier 1 capital requirement, and establish criteria that instruments must meet to be considered common equity Tier 1 capital, additional Tier 1 capital or Tier 2 capital. The new minimum capital to risk-adjusted assets requirements include a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5% &#32;( 6.5% &#32;to be considered &#8220;well capitalized&#8221;) and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0% , increased from 4.0% &#32;(and increased from 6.0% &#32;to 8.0% &#32;to be considered &#8220;well capitalized&#8221;); the total capital ratio remains at 8.0% &#32;under the new rules ( 10.0% &#32;to be considered &#8220;well capitalized&#8221;). Under the new rules, in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions (including dividend payments and certain discretionary bonus payments to executive officers), a banking organization must hold a capital conservation buffer comprised of common equity Tier 1 capital above its minimum risk-based capital requirements in an amount greater than 2.5% &#32;of total risk-weighted assets. The final rules permit institutions, other than certain large institutions, to elect to continue to treat most components of accumulated other comprehensive income as permitted under the current general risk-based capital rules, and not reflect these items in common equity Tier 1 calculations (such as unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities, amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income attributed to defined benefit retirement plans resulting from the initial and subsequent application of the relevant U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and accumulated net gains and losses on cash flow hedges related to items that are reported on the balance sheet at fair value.) The new minimum capital requirements were effective on January 1, 2015 . The capital conservation buffer requirements phase in over a three -year period beginning January 1, 2016. The Corporation will continue to analyze the impact of the new rules as it grows and as the capital conservation buffer requirements are phased in. 

Wealth Management and Insurance Businesses 

The Corporation's wealth management and insurance businesses are subject to additional regulatory requirements. The securities brokerage activities of Univest Investments, Inc. are subject to regulation by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. Girard Partners and TCG Investment Advisory are registered investment advisory firms which are subject to regulation by the SEC. Univest Insurance, Inc. is subject to Pennsylvania insurance laws and the regulations of the Pennsylvania Department of Insurance. 

Credit and Monetary Policies 

The Bank is affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve Board of Governors. An important function of these policies is to curb inflation and control recessions through control of the supply of money and credit. The Board uses its powers to regulate reserve requirements of member banks, the discount rate on member-bank borrowings, interest rates on time and savings deposits of member banks, and to conduct open-market operations in United States Government securities to exercise control over the supply of money and credit. The policies have a direct effect on the amount of bank loans and deposits and on the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits, with the result that the policies have a material effect on bank earnings. Future policies of the Board and other authorities cannot be predicted, nor can their effect on future bank earnings. 

The Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System (FHLBanks), which consists of 11 regional Federal Home Loan Banks, and is subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Housing Finance Agency. The FHLBanks provide a central credit facility primarily for member institutions. The Bank, as a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh (FHLB), is required to acquire and hold shares of capital stock in the FHLB. At December 31, 2015 , the Bank owned $2.2 million &#32;in FHLB capital stock. 

The deposits of the Bank are insured under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) up to applicable limits. Effective April 1, 2011, in accordance with the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC implemented a final rule regarding deposit insurance assessments. The rule changed the assessment base from domestic deposits to average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, adopted a new large-bank pricing assessment scheme, and set a target size for the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) at 2% of insured deposits. The rule adopted a new assessment rate schedule and, in lieu of dividends, other rate schedules when the reserve ratio reaches certain levels. The final rule also created a scorecard-based assessment system for banks with more than $10 billion in assets. The scorecards include financial measures that the FDIC believes are predictive of long-term performance. 

Acquisitions 

Univest Corporation of Pennsylvania and its operating segments provide financial solutions to individuals, businesses, municipalities and nonprofit organizations. The Corporation prides itself on being a financial organization that continues to increase its scope of services while maintaining traditional beliefs and a determined commitment to the communities it serves. Over the past five years, the Corporation and its subsidiaries have experienced stable growth, both organically and through various acquisitions to be the best integrated financial solutions provider in the market. 

The acquisitions included: 

&#8226; 

Valley Green Bank on January 1, 2015 

&#8226; 

Sterner Insurance Associates on July 1, 2014 

&#8226; 

Girard Partners on January 1, 2014 

&#8226; 

John T. Fretz Insurance Agency, Inc. on May 1, 2013 

&#8226; 

Javers Group on May 31, 2012 

On December 8, 2015 &#32;the Corporation entered into a definitive merger agreement with Fox Chase Bancorp, Inc. (Fox Chase), and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Fox Chase Bank. The transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of 2016. 

Securities and Exchange Commission Reports 

The Corporation makes available free-of-charge its reports that are electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) including its Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports on its website as a hyperlink to EDGAR. These reports are available as soon as reasonably practicable after the material is electronically filed. The Corporation&#8217;s website address is www.univest.net . Information included on the Corporation&#8217;s website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Corporation will provide at no charge a copy of the SEC Form 10-K annual report for the year 2015 &#32;to each shareholder who requests one in writing after March 31, 2016 . Requests should be directed to: Megan Duryea Santana, Corporate Secretary, Univest Corporation of Pennsylvania, P.O. Box 197, Souderton, PA 18964. 

The Corporation&#8217;s filings are also available at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the hours of operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains the Corporation&#8217;s SEC filings electronically at www.sec.gov . 

