 Item 1. BUSINESS. 

General 

Virginia National Bankshares Corporation (the &#147;Company&#148;) was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia on February 21, 2013 at the direction of the Board of Directors of Virginia National Bank (the &#147;Bank&#148;) for the purpose of acquiring all of the outstanding shares of the Bank and becoming the holding company of the Bank. On June 19, 2013, the shareholders of the Bank approved the Reorganization Agreement and Plan of Share Exchange, dated March 6, 2013, whereby the Bank would reorganize into a holding company structure (the &#147;Reorganization&#148;). 

On December 16, 2013, when the Reorganization became effective, the Bank became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and each share of the Bank&#146;s common stock was exchanged for one share of the Company&#146;s common stock. The Company is regulated under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (&#147;BHC Act&#148;), and is subject to inspection, examination and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the &#147;Federal Reserve Board&#148; or &#147;Federal Reserve&#148;). The Company is also under the jurisdiction of the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;) and is subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the &#147;Exchange Act&#148;) as administered by the SEC. Virginia National Bankshares Corporation is headquartered at 404 People Place, Charlottesville, Virginia. 

Virginia National Bank, the principal operating subsidiary of the Company, was organized in 1998 under federal law as a national banking association to engage in a general commercial and retail banking business. The Bank received its charter from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the &#147;OCC&#148;) and commenced operations on July 29, 1998. The Bank is headquartered in Charlottesville, Virginia. The Bank&#146;s deposits are insured up to the maximum amount provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Act by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (&#147;FDIC&#148;). The Bank is subject to the supervision, examination and regulations of the OCC. 

The Bank serves the Virginia communities in and around the City of Charlottesville, Albemarle County, Orange County and the City of Winchester. The Bank also has a loan production office in Warrenton, Virginia. The Bank offers a full range of banking and related financial services, including checking accounts, NOW accounts, money market deposit accounts, certificates of deposit, individual retirement accounts and other depository services. The Bank actively solicits such accounts from individuals, businesses, associations and other organizations within its trade area. The Bank also offers short to long term commercial, real estate and consumer loans. The Bank is committed to being a reliable and consistent source of credit, with loans that are priced based upon an overall banking relationship, easy access to the Bank&#146;s local decision makers who possess strong local market knowledge, local delivery, fast response, and continuity in the banking relationship. Other services offered by the Bank include automated teller machines (&#147;ATMs&#148;), Internet banking, treasury and cash management services and merchant card services. In addition, the Bank is affiliated with Visa &#174; which is accepted worldwide and offers debit cards to consumer and business customers. 

In the second quarter of 2014, the Company began to originate residential mortgage loans and to sell on the secondary market those loans which the Company does not wish to retain for its own loan portfolio due to the interest rate risks that are inherent with long-term fixed rate loans. 

Investment management, wealth advisory and trust and estate services are offered through the Bank&#8217;s wholly-owned subsidiary, VNBTrust, National Association which offers services under the trade name VNB Wealth Management (&#147;VNBTrust&#148; or &#147;VNB Wealth&#148;). The flagship product for managed accounts employs a value-based, catalyst-driven investment strategy. The financial instruments used include common and preferred stock, corporate bonds, bank loans and other debt securities, convertible securities, Exchange Traded Funds (&#147;EFTs&#148;), options, warrants and cash equivalents. More information on VNB Wealth Management is available at www.vnbwealth.com . 

Brokerage, investment advisory, annuity and insurance services and products are offered under the name of VNB Investment Services pursuant to networking agreement(s) with a registered broker/dealer and/or registered investment adviser to provide services through representatives who are also employees of the Company. 

Prior to July 18, 2013, VNBTrust was the sole owner of an operating subsidiary, Swift Run Capital Management, LLC (&#147;SRCM&#148;), formerly known as VNB Investment Management Company, LLC, a Delaware limited liability corporation. SRCM operates as the general partner of Swift Run Capital L.P. (&#147;Fund&#148;), a hedge fund. On July 18, 2013 (the &#147;Closing Date&#148;), VNBTrust completed the sale of all of the membership interests of SRCM to SRCM Holdings LLC (&#147;SRCM Holdings&#148;) pursuant to a purchase and sale agreement dated June 27, 2013. The Fund managed by SRCM represented less than 7 percent of the total assets managed by VNBTrust and SRCM at the Closing Date. A former officer of VNBTrust is the principal owner of SRCM Holdings. Additional details on this transaction are available in Note 1, in the notes to consolidated financial statements, contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

References to the Company&#146;s subsidiaries in this document include both the Bank and the Bank&#146;s subsidiary, VNBTrust. 

As of March 1, 2016, the Company and its subsidiaries occupied the following seven full-service banking facilities in the cities of Charlottesville and Winchester, as well as the counties of Albemarle and Orange in Virginia: 

Location 222 East Main Street, Charlottesville, Virginia 1580 Seminole Trail, Charlottesville, Virginia 1900 Arlington Boulevard, Charlottesville, Virginia 102 East Main Street, Orange, Virginia 186 North Loudoun Street, Winchester, Virginia 3119 Valley Avenue in Winchester, Virginia 404 People Place, Charlottesville, Virginia 

The multi-story office building at 404 People Place also serves as the Company&#146;s corporate headquarters and operations center, as well as the principal offices of VNB Wealth Management. Additionally, the Company has a loan production office in Warrenton, Virginia. 

Market Area 

The population in the market area served by the Company continues to grow. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the total market area served by the Company grew 20.0% between 2000 and 2010, as compared to 13.0 percent for the Commonwealth of Virginia as a whole. The Virginia State Demographer (the &#147;VSD&#146;) estimates that, as of 2015, the population of the Commonwealth had grown by 4.7%, while the population in the Company&#146;s current markets had grown by 5.7%. By 2020, the VSD expects Virginia&#8217;s population will be 10.1% higher than the 2010 Census totals, with the population in the Company&#8217;s current market area projected to be 15.2% higher than reported by the 2010 Census, 

The combined populations of the City of Charlottesville and Albemarle County stood at 142,445 persons as of April 1, 2010, an increase of approximately 14.6% between April 1, 2000 and April 1, 2010. The VSD estimates that the two municipalities have grown by an additional 7.6% to a population of 153,261 as of 2015 and projects these municipalities will continue to grow to a population of 161,278 by 2020. Charlottesville and Albemarle County support a diverse, well-rounded economy. Stability in the local economy stems from the significant number of persons employed by a wide variety of employers including the University of Virginia, large medical and research facilities such as Martha Jefferson and UVA Health Services, insurance and technology industries, Federal government-based facilities, and a large number of national retail chains. 

Orange County had a population of approximately 33,481 persons as of 2010. Between April 1, 2000 and April 1, 2010, its population grew 29.4%. 2015 VSD estimates show the population to have grown to 34,015 persons. 

The combined populations of the City of Winchester and Frederick County increased approximately 26.2 percent between April 1, 2000 and April 1, 2010, to a population of 104,508 persons in 2010. The VSD estimates that the combined populations for these two areas have already grown to 110,138 by 2015, a 5.4% increase, and expects these populations to be 125,159 by 2020, an increase of 19.8% over the 2010 census figure. The Winchester area combines growth within its own service and industrial sectors with growth attributable to the western and southern regions of Northern Virginia. 

The Company&#146;s newest market area of Warrenton and Fauquier County is estimated by VSD to have a population of 67,898 as of 2015 and is projected to grow to 74,118 persons by 2020, a 5.7% increase over the 2010 population. Similar to the Winchester area, Fauquier County benefits from its proximity to Washington, D.C. and Northern Virginia for realizing growth. 

Competition 

The Company engages in highly competitive activities. Each activity involves competition with other banks, as well as with non-banking enterprises that offer financial products and services that compete directly with the Company&#146;s product and service offerings. The Company actively competes with other banks in its efforts to obtain deposits and make loans, in the scope and types of services offered, in interest rates paid on time deposits and charged on loans, and in other aspects of banking. 

In addition to competing with other commercial banks within and outside its primary service areas, the Company competes with other financial institutions engaged in the business of making loans or accepting deposits, such as credit unions, insurance companies, small loan companies, finance companies, mortgage companies, certain governmental agencies and other enterprises. Competition for funds from securities brokers and mutual funds for money market accounts is strong. Additional competition for deposits comes from government and private issues of debt obligations and other investment alternatives for depositors such as money market funds. 

The market areas served by the Company are highly competitive with respect to banking. Competition for loans to small businesses and professionals is intense, and pricing is important. Many of the Company&#146;s competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Company and offer certain services such as extensive and established branch networks that the Company does not expect to match. Deposit competition is also very strong. Management believes, however, that a market exists for the personal and customized financial services an independent, locally owned bank can offer. 

Supervision and Regulation 

Bank holding companies and banks are extensively regulated under both federal and state laws. The following description briefly addresses certain historic and current provisions of federal and state laws and certain regulations, proposed regulations and the potential impacts on the Company and the Bank. To the extent statutory or regulatory provisions or proposals are described in this Report, the description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provisions or proposals. 

The Company 

General . As a bank holding company registered under the BHC Act, the Company is subject to supervision, regulation, and examination by the Federal Reserve. The Company is also registered under the bank holding company laws of Virginia and is subject to supervision, regulation, and examination by the Virginia State Corporation Commission (the &#147;SCC&#148;). 

Permitted Activities . A bank holding company is limited to managing or controlling banks, furnishing services to or performing services for its subsidiaries, and engaging in other activities that the Federal Reserve determines by regulation or order to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. In determining whether a particular activity is permissible, the Federal Reserve must consider whether the performance of such an activity reasonably can be expected to produce benefits to the public that outweigh possible adverse effects. Possible benefits include greater convenience, increased competition, and gains in efficiency. Possible adverse effects include undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, and unsound banking practices. Despite prior approval, the Federal Reserve may order a bank holding company or its subsidiaries to terminate any activity or to terminate ownership or control of any subsidiary when the Federal Reserve has reasonable cause to believe that a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of any bank subsidiary of that bank holding company may result from such an activity. 

Banking Acquisitions; Changes in Control . The BHC Act requires, among other things, the prior approval of the Federal Reserve in any case where a bank holding company proposes to (i) acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the outstanding voting stock of any bank or bank holding company (unless it already owns a majority of such voting shares), (ii) acquire all or substantially all of the assets of another bank or bank holding company, or (iii) merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, the Federal Reserve will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, the public benefits expected to be received from the acquisition, the projected capital ratios and levels on a post-acquisition basis, and the acquiring institution&#146;s performance under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 and its compliance with fair housing and other consumer protection laws. 

Subject to certain exceptions, the BHC Act and the Change in Bank Control Act, together with the applicable regulations, require Federal Reserve approval (or, depending on the circumstances, no notice of disapproval) prior to any person or company&#146;s acquiring &#147;control&#148; of a bank or bank holding company. A conclusive presumption of control exists if an individual or company acquires the power, directly or indirectly, to direct the management or policies of an insured depository institution or to vote 25% or more of any class of voting securities of any insured depository institution. A rebuttable presumption of control exists if a person or company acquires 10% or more but less than 25% of any class of voting securities of an insured depository institution and either the institution has registered its securities with the SEC under Section 12 of the Exchange Act or no other person will own a greater percentage of that class of voting securities immediately after the acquisition. The Company&#146;s common stock is registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act. 

In addition, Virginia law requires the prior approval of the SCC for (i) any Virginia bank or Virginia bank holding company to acquire more than 5% of the voting shares of a Virginia bank or any holding company that controls a Virginia bank, or (ii) the acquisition by a Virginia bank holding company of a bank or its holding company domiciled outside Virginia. 

Source of Strength . Federal Reserve policy has historically required bank holding companies to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to their subsidiary banks. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (&#147;Dodd-Frank Act&#148;) codified this policy as a statutory requirement. Under this requirement, the Company is expected to commit resources to support the Bank, including at times when the Company may not be in a financial position to provide such resources. Any capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to depositors and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. In the event of a bank holding company&#146;s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment. 

Safety and Soundness . There are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed on bank holding companies and their subsidiary banks by law and regulatory policy that are designed to minimize potential loss to the depositors of such depository institutions and the FDIC insurance fund in the event of a depository institution default. For example, under the Federal Deposit Insurance Company Improvement Act of 1991, to avoid receivership of an insured depository institution subsidiary, a bank holding company is required to guarantee the compliance of any subsidiary bank that may become &#147;undercapitalized&#148; with the terms of any capital restoration plan filed by such subsidiary with its appropriate federal bank regulatory agency up to the lesser of (i) an amount equal to 5% of the institution&#146;s total assets at the time the institution became undercapitalized, or (ii) the amount that is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the institution into compliance with all applicable capital standards as of the time the institution fails to comply with such capital restoration plan. 

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (&#147;FDIA&#148;), the federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines prescribing safety and soundness standards. These guidelines establish general standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, and asset growth, as well as compensation, fees and benefits. In general, the guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risk and exposures specified in the guidelines. 

Capital Requirements . The Federal Reserve imposes certain capital requirements on bank holding companies under the BHC Act, including a minimum leverage ratio and a minimum ratio of &#147;qualifying&#148; capital to risk-weighted assets. These requirements are described below under &#147;The Bank &#150; Capital Requirements.&#148; 

Limits on Dividends and Other Payments . The Company is a legal entity, separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. A significant portion of the revenues of the Company result from dividends paid to it by the Bank. There are various legal limitations applicable to the payment of dividends by the Bank to the Company and to the payment of dividends by the Company to its shareholders. The Bank is subject to various restrictions on its ability to pay dividends to the Company. The OCC has advised that a national bank should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. Under current regulations, prior approval from the Federal Reserve is required if cash dividends declared in any given year exceed net income for that year, plus retained net profits of the two preceding years. The payment of dividends by the Bank or the Company may be limited by other factors, such as requirements to maintain capital above regulatory guidelines. Bank regulatory agencies have the authority to prohibit the Bank or the Company from engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice in conducting their respective business. The payment of dividends, depending on the financial condition of the Bank, or the Company, could be deemed to constitute such an unsafe or unsound practice. 

Under the FDIA, insured depository institutions such as the Bank, are prohibited from making capital distributions, including the payment of dividends, if, after making such distributions, the institution would become &#147;undercapitalized&#148; (as such term is used in the statute). Based on the Bank&#146;s current financial condition, the Company does not expect this provision will have any impact on its ability to receive dividends from the Bank. 

The Bank 

General . The Bank is supervised and regularly examined by the OCC. The various laws and regulations administered by the bank regulatory agencies affect corporate practices, such as the payment of dividends, incurrence of debt and acquisition of financial institutions and other companies; they also affect business practices, such as the payment of interest on deposits, the charging of interest on loans, types of business conducted and location of offices. Certain of these law and regulations are referenced above under &#147;The Company.&#148; 

Capital Requirements. The OCC and the other federal banking agencies have issued risk-based and leverage capital guidelines applicable to U.S. banking organizations. In addition, those regulatory agencies may from time to time require that a banking organization maintain capital above the minimum levels because of its financial condition or actual or anticipated growth. 

2014 Capital Requirements . Under the risk-based capital requirements of the Federal Reserve and the OCC that were effective through December 31, 2014, the Company and the Bank were required to maintain a minimum ratio of total capital (which is defined as core capital and supplementary capital less certain specified deductions from total capital such as reciprocal holdings of depository institution capital instruments and equity investments) to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%. In determining the amount of risk-weighted assets, all assets, including certain off-balance sheet activities, recourse obligations, residual interests and direct credit substitutes, were multiplied by a risk-weight factor assigned by the capital regulation based on the risks believed inherent in the type of asset. At least half of the total capital was required to be &#147;Tier 1 capital,&#148; which consisted principally of common and certain qualifying preferred shareholders&#146; equity (including grandfathered trust preferred securities), less certain intangibles and other adjustments. The remainder (&#147;Tier 2 capital&#148;) consisted of cumulative preferred stock, long-term perpetual preferred stock, a limited amount of subordinated and other qualifying debt (including certain hybrid capital instruments), and a limited amount of the general loan loss allowance. The Tier 1 and total capital to risk-weighted asset ratios of the Company were 16.98% and 17.87%, respectively, as of December 31, 2014, thus exceeding the minimum requirements. The Tier 1 and total capital to risk-weighted asset ratios of the Bank were 14.74% and 15.63%, respectively, as of December 31, 2014, also exceeding the minimum requirements. 

Each of the federal bank regulatory agencies also established a minimum leverage capital ratio of Tier 1 capital to average adjusted assets (&#147;Tier 1 leverage ratio&#148;) that was effective through December 31, 2014. The guidelines required a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 3.0% for bank holding companies and banking organizations with the highest supervisory rating. All other banking organizations were required to maintain a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% unless a different minimum was specified by an appropriate regulatory authority. In addition, for a depository institution to have been considered &#147;well capitalized&#148; under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, its Tier 1 leverage ratio must have been at least 5.0%. As of December 31, 2014, the Tier 1 leverage ratio of the Company and the Bank were 11.38% and 9.86%, respectively, well above the minimum requirements. 

Basel III Capital Requirements Effective January 1, 2015 . In June 2012, the federal bank regulatory agencies issued a series of proposed rules intended to revise and strengthen its risk-based and leverage capital requirements and its method for calculating risk-weighted assets. The rules were proposed to implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. In July 2013, the federal bank regulatory agencies approved certain revisions to the proposals and finalized new capital requirements for banking organizations. 

Effective January 1, 2015, the final rules require the Company and the Bank to comply with the following new minimum capital ratios: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5% of risk-weighted assets; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% of risk-weighted assets (increased from the prior requirement of 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% of risk-weighted assets (unchanged from the prior requirement); and (iv) a leverage ratio of 4% of total assets (unchanged from the prior requirement). These are the initial capital requirements, which will be phased in over a four-year period. When fully phased in on January 1, 2019, the rules will require the Company and the Bank to maintain (i) a minimum ratio of common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% &#147;capital conservation buffer&#148; (which is added to the 4.5% common equity Tier 1 ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7% upon full implementation); (ii) a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the 2.5% capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0% Tier 1 capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation); (iii) a minimum ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the 2.5% capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation); and (iv) a minimum leverage ratio of 4%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to average assets. 

The Tier 1 and total capital to risk-weighted asset ratios of the Company were 12.60% and 13.39%, respectively, as of December 31, 2015, thus exceeding the minimum requirements. The Tier 1 and total capital to risk-weighted asset ratios of the Bank were 12.31% and 13.10%, respectively, as of December 31, 2015, also exceeding the minimum requirements. As of December 31, 2015, the Tier 1 leverage ratio of the Company and the Bank were 10.05% and 9.81%, respectively, well above the minimum requirements. 

The capital conservation buffer requirement is being phased in beginning January 1, 2016, at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets, increasing by the same amount each year until fully implemented at 2.5% on January 1, 2019. The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a ratio of common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the conservation buffer will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases, and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. 

With respect to the Bank, the rules also revised the &#147;prompt corrective action&#148; regulations pursuant to Section 38 of the FDIA by (i) introducing a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio requirement at each level (other than critically undercapitalized), with the required ratio being 6.5% for well-capitalized status; (ii) increasing the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio requirement for each category, with the minimum ratio for well-capitalized status being 8.0% (as compared to the prior ratio of 6.0%); and (iii) eliminating the provision that provided that a bank with a composite supervisory rating of 1 may have a 3.0% Tier 1 leverage ratio and still be well-capitalized. These new thresholds were effective for the Bank as of January 1, 2015. The minimum total capital to risk-weighted assets ratio (10.0%) and minimum leverage ratio (5.0%) for well-capitalized status were unchanged by the final rules. 

The new capital requirements also include changes in the risk weights of assets to better reflect credit risk and other risk exposures. These include a 150% risk weight (up from 100%) for certain high volatility commercial real estate acquisition, development and construction loans and nonresidential mortgage loans that are 90 days past due or otherwise on non-accrual status, a 20% (up from 0%) credit conversion factor for the unused portion of a commitment with an original maturity of one year or less that is not unconditionally cancellable, a 250% risk weight (up from 100%) for mortgage servicing rights and deferred tax assets that are not deducted from capital, and increased risk-weights (from 0% to up to 600%) for equity exposures. 

Based on management&#146;s understanding and interpretation of the new capital rules, it believes that, as of December 31, 2015, the Company and Bank would meet all capital adequacy requirements under such rules on a fully phased-in basis as if such requirements were in effect as of such date. 

Deposit Insurance . The deposits of the Bank are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund (&#147;DIF&#148;) of the FDIC and are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the DIF. On April 1, 2011, the deposit insurance assessment base changed from total deposits to average total assets minus average tangible equity, pursuant to a rule issued by the FDIC as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. 

FDIA, as amended by the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act and the Dodd-Frank Act, requires the FDIC to set a ratio of deposit insurance reserves to estimated insured deposits of at least 1.35%. The FDIC utilizes a risk-based assessment system that imposes insurance premiums based upon a risk matrix that takes into account a bank&#146;s capital level and supervisory rating. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC introduced three possible adjustments to an institution&#146;s initial base assessment rate: (i) a decrease of up to five basis points for long-term unsecured debt, including senior unsecured debt (other than debt guaranteed under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program) and subordinated debt and, for small institutions, a portion of Tier 1 capital; (ii) an increase not to exceed 50% of an institution&#146;s assessment rate before the increase for secured liabilities in excess of 25% of domestic deposits; and (iii) for non-Risk Category I institutions, an increase not to exceed 10 basis points for brokered deposits in excess of 10% of domestic deposits. In 2015 and 2014, the Company expensed only the base assessment rate for &#147;well capitalized&#148; institutions, which totaled $322,000 and $240,000, respectively, in regular deposit insurance assessments. 

In addition, all FDIC insured institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC at an annual rate of approximately one basis point of insured deposits to fund interest payments on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation, an agency of the federal government established to recapitalize the predecessor to the Savings Association Insurance Fund. These assessments will continue until the Financing Corporation bonds mature in 2017 through 2019. In 2015 and 2014, the Company paid a Financing Corporation assessment of $29,000 and $28,000, respectively. 

Transactions with Affiliates . Pursuant to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W, the authority of the Bank to engage in transactions with related parties or &#147;affiliates&#148; or to make loans to insiders is limited. Loan transactions with an affiliate generally must be collateralized and certain transactions between the Bank and its affiliates, including the sale of assets, the payment of money or the provision of services, must be on terms and conditions that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the Bank, as those prevailing for comparable nonaffiliated transactions. In addition, the Bank generally may not purchase securities issued or underwritten by affiliates. 

Loans to executive officers, directors or to any person who directly or indirectly, or acting through or in concert with one or more persons, owns, controls or has the power to vote more than 10% of any class of voting securities of a bank (a &#147;10% Shareholder&#148;), are subject to Sections 22(g) and 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act and their corresponding regulations (Regulation O) and Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act relating to the prohibition on personal loans to executives (which exempts financial institutions in compliance with the insider lending restrictions of Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act). Among other things, these loans must be made on terms substantially the same as those prevailing on transactions made to unaffiliated individuals and certain extensions of credit to those persons must first be approved in advance by a disinterested majority of the entire board of directors. Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act prohibits loans to any of those individuals where the aggregate amount exceeds an amount equal to 15% of an institution&#146;s unimpaired capital and surplus plus an additional 10% of unimpaired capital and surplus in the case of loans that are fully secured by readily marketable collateral, or when the aggregate amount on all of the extensions of credit outstanding to all of these persons would exceed the Bank&#146;s unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus. Section 22(g) of the Federal Reserve Act identifies limited circumstances in which the Bank is permitted to extend credit to executive officers. 

Prompt Corrective Action . Federal banking regulators are authorized and, under certain circumstances, required to take certain actions against banks that fail to meet their capital requirements. The federal bank regulatory agencies have additional enforcement authority with respect to undercapitalized depository institutions. &#147;Well capitalized&#148; institutions may generally operate without supervisory restriction. With respect to &#147;adequately capitalized&#148; institutions, such banks cannot normally pay dividends or make any capital contributions that would leave it undercapitalized; they cannot pay a management fee to a controlling person if, after paying the fee, it would be undercapitalized; and they cannot accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit unless the bank has applied for and been granted a waiver by the FDIC. 

Immediately upon becoming &#147;undercapitalized,&#148; a depository institution becomes subject to the provisions of Section 38 of the FDIA, which: (i) restrict payment of capital distributions and management fees; (ii) require that the appropriate federal banking agency monitor the condition of the institution and its efforts to restore its capital; (iii) require submission of a capital restoration plan; (iv) restrict the growth of the institution&#146;s assets; and (v) require prior approval of certain expansion proposals. The appropriate federal banking agency for an undercapitalized institution also may take any number of discretionary supervisory actions if the agency determines that any of these actions is necessary to resolve the problems of the institution at the least possible long-term cost to the DIF, subject in certain cases to specified procedures. These discretionary supervisory actions include: (i) requiring the institution to raise additional capital; (ii) restricting transactions with affiliates; (iii) requiring divestiture of the institution or the sale of the institution to a willing purchaser; and (iv) any other supervisory action that the agency deems appropriate. These and additional mandatory and permissive supervisory actions may be taken with respect to significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized institutions. The Bank meets the definition of being &#147;well capitalized&#148; as of December 31, 2015. 

As described above in &#147;The Bank &#150; Capital Requirements,&#148; the new capital requirement rules issued by the OCC incorporate new requirements into the prompt corrective action framework. 

Community Reinvestment Act . The Bank is subject to the requirements of the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (the &#147;CRA&#148;). The CRA imposes on financial institutions an affirmative and ongoing obligation to meet the credit needs of the local communities they serve, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. The CRA requires the appropriate federal banking agency, in connection with its examination of a bank, to assess the bank&#146;s record in meeting such credit needs. Furthermore, such assessment is also required of banks that have applied, among other things, to merge or consolidate with or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of an insured depository institution, or to open or relocate a branch. In the case of a bank holding company applying for approval to acquire a bank or another bank holding company, the record of each subsidiary bank of the applicant bank holding company is subject to assessment in considering the application. Under the CRA, institutions are assigned a rating of &#147;outstanding,&#148; &#147;satisfactory,&#148; &#147;needs to improve,&#148; or &#147;substantial non-compliance.&#148; The Bank received a &#147;satisfactory&#148; CRA rating in its most recent examination. 

Privacy Legislation . Several recent laws, including the Right to Financial Privacy Act, and related regulations issued by the federal bank regulatory agencies, provide new protections against the transfer and use of customer information by financial institutions. A financial institution must provide to its customers information regarding its policies and procedures with respect to the handling of customers&#146; personal information. Each institution must conduct an internal risk assessment of its ability to protect customer information. These privacy provisions generally prohibit a financial institution from providing a customer&#146;s personal financial information to unaffiliated parties without prior notice and approval from the customer. 

USA Patriot Act of 2001 . In October 2001, the USA Patriot Act of 2001 (&#147;Patriot Act&#148;) was enacted in response to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in New York, Pennsylvania, and Northern Virginia. The Patriot Act is intended to strengthen U.S. law enforcement and the intelligence communities&#146; abilities to work cohesively to combat terrorism. The continuing impact on financial institutions of the Patriot Act and related regulations and policies is significant and wide ranging. The Patriot Act contains sweeping anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws, and imposes various regulations, including standards for verifying customer identification at account opening, and rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities to identify persons who may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. 

Volcker Rule . The Dodd-Frank Act prohibits insured depository institutions and their holding companies from engaging in proprietary trading except in limited circumstances, and prohibits them from owning equity interests in excess of 3% of Tier 1 capital in private equity and hedge funds (known as the &#147;Volcker Rule&#148;). On December 10, 2013, the federal bank regulatory agencies adopted final rules implementing the Volcker Rule. These final rules prohibit banking entities from (i) engaging in short-term proprietary trading for their own accounts, and (ii) having certain ownership interests in and relationships with hedge funds or private equity funds. The final rules are intended to provide greater clarity with respect to both the extent of those primary prohibitions and of the related exemptions and exclusions. The final rules also require each regulated entity to establish an internal compliance program that is consistent with the extent to which it engages in activities covered by the Volcker Rule, which must include (for the largest entities) making regular reports about those activities to regulators. Although the final rules provide some tiering of compliance and reporting obligations based on size, the fundamental prohibitions of the Volcker Rule apply to banking entities of any size, including the Company and the Bank. The final rules were effective April 1, 2014, with full compliance being phased in over a period which will end on July 21, 2016. The Company has evaluated the implications of the final rules on its investments and does not expect any material financial implications. 

Under the rules implementing the Volcker Rule, banking entities would have been prohibited from owning certain collateralized debt obligations (&#147;CDOs&#148;) backed by trust preferred securities (&#147;TruPS&#148;) as of July 21, 2015, which could have forced banking entities to recognize unrealized market losses based on the inability to hold any such investments to maturity. However, on January 14, 2014, the federal bank regulatory agencies issued an interim rule, effective April 1, 2014, exempting TruPS CDOs from the Volcker Rule if (i) the CDO was established prior to May 19, 2010, (ii) the banking entity reasonably believes that the offering proceeds of the CDO were used to invest primarily in TruPS issued by banks with less than $15 billion in assets, and (iii) the banking entity acquired the CDO on or before December 10, 2013. The regulators solicited comments on the interim final rule, and this exemption could change prior to its effective date. The Company currently does not have any impermissible holdings of TruPS CDOs under the interim final rule and, therefore, will not be required to divest of any such investments or change their accounting treatment. The Company is continuously reviewing its investments to ensure compliance as the various provisions of the Volcker Rule regulations become effective. 

Consumer Financial Protection . The Bank is subject to a number of federal and state consumer protection laws that extensively govern its relationship with its customers. These laws include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Service Members Civil Relief Act, Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act, laws governing flood insurance, federal and state laws prohibiting unfair and deceptive business practices, foreclosure laws, and various regulations that implement some or all of the foregoing. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with customers when taking deposits, making loans, collecting loans and providing other services. If the Bank fails to comply with these laws and regulations, it may be subject to various penalties. Failure to comply with consumer protection requirements may also result in failure to obtain any required bank regulatory approval for merger or acquisition transactions the Bank may wish to pursue or being prohibited from engaging in such transactions even if approval is not required. 

The Dodd-Frank Act centralized responsibility for consumer financial protection by creating a new agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the &#147;CFPB&#148;), and giving it responsibility for implementing, examining, and enforcing compliance with federal consumer protection laws. The CFPB focuses on (i) risks to consumers and compliance with the federal consumer financial laws, (ii) the markets in which firms operate and risks to consumers posed by activities in those markets, (iii) depository institutions that offer a wide variety of consumer financial products and services, and (iv) non-depository companies that offer one or more consumer financial products or services. 

The CFPB has broad rulemaking authority for a wide range of consumer financial laws that apply to all banks, including, among other things, the authority to prohibit &#147;unfair, deceptive or abusive&#148; acts and practices. Abusive acts or practices are defined as those that materially interfere with a consumer&#146;s ability to understand a term or condition of a consumer financial product or service or take unreasonable advantage of a consumer&#146;s (i) lack of financial savvy, (ii) inability to protect himself in the selection or use of consumer financial products or services, or (iii) reasonable reliance on a covered entity to act in the consumer&#146;s interests. The CFPB can issue cease-and-desist orders against banks and other entities that violate consumer financial laws. The CFPB may also institute a civil action against an entity in violation of federal consumer financial law in order to impose a civil penalty or injunction. 

Ability-to-Repay and Qualified Mortgage Rule . Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB issued a final rule on January 10, 2013 (effective on January 10, 2014), amending Regulation Z as implemented by the Truth in Lending Act, requiring mortgage lenders to make a reasonable and good faith determination based on verified and documented information that a consumer applying for a mortgage loan has a reasonable ability to repay the loan according to its terms. Mortgage lenders are required to determine consumers&#146; ability to repay in one of two ways. The first alternative requires the mortgage lender to consider the following eight underwriting factors when making the credit decision: (i) current or reasonably expected income or assets; (ii) current employment status; (iii) the monthly payment on the covered transaction; (iv) the monthly payment on any simultaneous loan; (v) the monthly payment for mortgage-related obligations; (vi) current debt obligations, alimony, and child support; (vii) the monthly debt-to-income ratio or residual income; and (viii) credit history. Alternatively, the mortgage lender can originate &#147;qualified mortgages,&#148; which are entitled to a presumption that the creditor making the loan satisfied the ability-to-repay requirements. In general, a &#147;qualified mortgage&#148; is a mortgage loan without negative amortization, interest-only payments, balloon payments, or terms exceeding 30 years. In addition, to be a qualified mortgage, the points and fees paid by a consumer cannot exceed 3% of the total loan amount, and the consumer&#146;s debt-to-income (&#147;DTI&#148;) must be below the prescribed threshold. Qualified mortgages that are &#147;higher-priced&#148; (e.g. subprime loans) garner a rebuttable presumption of compliance with the ability-to-repay rules, while qualified mortgages that are not &#147;higher-priced&#148; (e.g. prime loans) are given a safe harbor of compliance. Small creditors, as described below, may originate qualified mortgages that are not restricted by the specific DTI threshold (however, the DTI must still be considered). Small creditors are those financial institutions that meet the following requirements: (i) have assets below $2 billion (adjustable annually by CFPB); (ii) originated no more than 500 first-lien, closed-end residential mortgages subject to the ability-to-repay requirements in the preceding calendar year; and (iii) hold the qualified mortgage loan in its portfolio after origination. The Company, as a small creditor, does comply with the &#147;qualified mortgage rules&#148; and the other applicable Truth in Lending requirements. 

Incentive Compensation . In June 2010, the federal bank regulatory agencies issued comprehensive final guidance on incentive compensation policies intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of financial institutions do not undermine the safety and soundness of such institutions by encouraging excessive risk-taking. The Interagency Guidance on Sound Incentive Compensation Policies, which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of financial institutions, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a financial institution&#146;s incentive compensation arrangements should (i) provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the institution&#146;s ability to effectively identify and manage risks, (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the financial institution&#146;s board of directors. 

The Federal Reserve and the OCC will review, as part of the regular, risk-focused examination process, the incentive compensation arrangements of financial institutions, such as the Company and the Bank, that are not &#147;large, complex banking organizations.&#148; These reviews will be tailored to each financial institution based on the scope and complexity of the institution&#146;s activities and the prevalence of incentive compensation arrangements. The findings of the supervisory initiatives will be included in reports of examination. Deficiencies will be incorporated into the institution&#146;s supervisory ratings, which can affect the institution&#146;s ability to make acquisitions and take other actions. Enforcement actions may be taken against a financial institution if its incentive compensation arrangements, or related risk-management control or governance processes, pose a risk to the institution&#146;s safety and soundness and the financial institution is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. At December 31, 2015, the Company and the Bank have not been made aware of any instances of non-compliance with the final guidance. 

Cybersecurity . In March 2015, federal regulators issued two related statements regarding cybersecurity. One statement indicates that financial institutions should design multiple layers of security controls to establish lines of defense and to ensure that their risk management processes also address the risk posed by compromised customer credentials, including security measures to reliably authenticate customers accessing internet-based services of the financial institution. The other statement indicates that a financial institution&#146;s management is expected to maintain sufficient business continuity planning processes to ensure the rapid recovery, resumption and maintenance of the institution&#146;s operations after a cyber-attack involving destructive malware. A financial institution is also expected to develop appropriate processes to enable recovery of data and business operations and address rebuilding network capabilities and restoring data if the institution falls victim to this type of cyber-attack. This includes appropriate due diligence of its critical service providers to ensure effective recovery efforts have been implemented. If the Company fails to observe the regulatory guidance, it could be subject to various regulatory sanctions, including financial penalties. Risks and exposures related to cybersecurity attacks are expected to remain high for the foreseeable future due to the rapidly evolving nature and sophistication of these threats, and the expanding use of technology-based products and services. The Company is, however, taking industry leading measures to combat these types of threats and manage risk to the Company and its customers. 

Effect of Governmental Monetary Policies 

The Company&#146;s operations are affected not only by general economic conditions but also by the policies of various regulatory authorities. In particular, the Federal Reserve regulates money and credit conditions and interest rates to influence general economic conditions. These policies have a significant impact on overall growth and distribution of loans, investments and deposits; they affect interest rates charged on loans or paid for time and savings deposits. Federal Reserve monetary policies have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks, including the Company, in the past and are expected to do so in the future. 

Reporting Obligations under Securities Laws; Availability of Information 

The Company is subject to the periodic and other reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, including the filing of annual, quarterly and other reports with the SEC. Prior to the Reorganization, the Bank filed the periodic and annual reports required under the Exchange Act with the OCC. Annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, plus any amendments to these reports, are available, free of charge, at www.vnbcorp.com and under the &#147;Investor Relations&#148; section of the Bank&#146;s website at www.vnb.com . The Company&#146;s SEC filings are posted and available as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed electronically with the SEC. The information on the Company&#8217;s or Bank&#8217;s website is not incorporated into this report or any other filing the Company makes with the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov . 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, the Company had 94 full time equivalent employees. None of its employees are represented by any collective bargaining unit. The Company considers relations with its employees to be good. 

The Company owns Bank Owned Life Insurance (&#147;BOLI&#148;) policies on executives and other key personnel of the Company. BOLI is a bank-eligible asset designed to recover costs of providing pre- and post-retirement benefits and/or to finance general employee benefit expenses. Under BOLI policies, the executives and other key personnel are the insured, and the Company is the owner and beneficiary of the policies. The insured has no claim to the insurance policy or to the policy&#146;s cash value. Under separate split dollar agreements, a portion of any death benefit may be paid to the beneficiaries of the insured employees, subject to the terms and restrictions of the split dollar endorsement agreement between the insured employee and the Company. 

