 ITEM 1. &#160; BUSINESS 

Corporate History

We were incorporated in the State of Nevada on February 24, 2010, under the name Appiphany Technologies Holdings Corp. On May 1, 2010, we entered into a Share Exchange Agreement (the "SEA") with Appiphany Technologies Corp. ("ATC"), a company incorporated in British Columbia, Canada in June 2009, pursuant to which we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of ATC in exchange for 1,500,000 shares of the Company's common stock. On January 14, 2016, we acquired certain assets and accounts from Media Convergence Group, LLC in exchange for 20,000,000 shares of the Company's common stock.

Our Business

ATC commenced operations as a diversified technology company in June of 2009. Our business model has refocused to a global brand protection company. This business model will encompass all areas of protecting "Intellectual Property" of global brand owners through Risk Management, Technology Innovation and Strategic Supply Chain Strategies. With our combined expertise we will manage and deliver cost-effective, collaborative and creative strategies to protect the assets of global brands. We will also ensure client ROI through protection of markets, prevention of brand erosion and lost sales resulting in enhanced returns to the bottom line. Specifically, our core focus is online brand protection or internet monitoring. Our web-based platform allows us and our clients to search, identify and take action against illicit, counterfeit, and diverted sales of products purporting to be their product online. This ability to monitor dozens of auction sites worldwide and do product queries in real time is a very significant competitive advantage in the online brand protection market. Our other offerings include Risk Management Services, Custom App Software Development (Serialization / T &#38; T) and Print Technology services (Forensics, labels and hangtags).

Our Clientele 

Our current clientele is highly focused on the luxury goods industry as well as the footwear and apparel market. We have a background in the sport apparel market in North America and have created vertical-specific referral partners to expand this market rapidly. As well immediate plans are to focus on the health and beauty (cosmetics) industry, and electronics and imaging supplies companies.

&#160;

The Global Landscape in Counterfeiting and Piracy

Counterfeit, diverted and gray-market products are flooding the marketplace due to globalization, brand promotion and the increased use of product licensing. It is estimated to be 1.7 Trillion Dollars in cross boarder trade according to the International Anti-Counterfeiting Coalition. This is the case with virtually any high-demand and highly-recognized product that is distributed beyond its primary market without a unified, global pricing structure.

Product diversion not only affects profitability in primary markets based on pricing, but it also erodes brand identity and value. When luxury goods turn up at unauthorized discounters or flea markets, and pharmaceuticals are being offered through the Internet, the perception of the value of the product is diminished in the consumers' eyes.

Global organizations in specific industries specialize in diverting products from emerging markets to primary markets. These "brokers" employ various means to obtain product including front companies, corruption or deception of internal sales staff and legitimate customers, and even theft. Since criminal remedies do not typically apply to diversion cases, it is critical to identify the "originating source" of products and shut them down. This usually involves complex investigative techniques designed to identify the wrongdoers by working both internally and externally in the client's operations, examining potential sources such as manufacturers, licensees, sales staff and accounts

&#160;

Market Opportunity

We have created a business model that assembles companies that has a proven track record (performance, longevity and revenues) in their specific silo or portfolio. We have a well-designed integrated platform. It will maximize revenues in each separate portfolio, and create several new high-income streams that are only possible with globally positioned, full service Brand Management portfolio integration. The opportunity for an immediate and significant market share of this Brand Management/Brand Protection (BM/BP) sector is viable and highly profitable.

Cyber Security (Internet Monitoring)

Another critical component of our Company is Internet Monitoring. Through the use of our technology, companies will have the ability to monitor globally across the Internet &#8211; at both the brand and individual product level. They will have advanced monitoring capabilities, sophisticated protocols for processing the collected data. They will have dedicated data analyst support for each client implementation to provide the best solutions available for online brand protection . We have three primary monitoring platforms as follows: 

Watchdog &#228; Protect

(Full internet monitoring and auction removal platform)

Watchdog Protect online monitoring solution provides enhanced B2B and B2C auction site monitoring for the purpose of identifying and removing counterfeit, stolen or gray market goods and intellectual property infringements damaging to a company's brand. Integral to this platform is our "dynamic filtering system". This feature enables companies to refine their search results by geography, website, price, etc, in "real-time-and the "removals" section which intelligently automates the bulk of the removals process and correspondence with sellers. Companies can remove items infringing their intellectual property with a "click of a button". This fully integrated reporting feature allows complete oversight of monitoring and removals "activity''. "Dynamic filter" database results in real-time can be also graded by relevance. This also allows you to delve deeper into seller profiles and items, as well as expedite the removals process.

Watchdog &#228; Locate

(Loss Prevention platform)

We have extracted local analysis functionality from our enterprise product, and now available as Watchdog "Locate". This service addresses demand in the retail and manufacturing sectors for loss prevention solutions, to automate detection of suspicious items online. This "intelligent" monitoring tool automates the identification of potentially stolen and fraudulently obtained items being listed by employees, vendors and contractors on online auction sties. This solution has the ability to automatically cross-reference sales of companies' products with staff postal code and address details.

&#160;

&#160;

Watchdog Web &#228; 

(Extends monitoring to multiple social media platforms)

Watchdog web takes the auction site monitoring capability of Watchdog Protect and applies it to the wider web. It will Identify and remove threats to organization and personnel online. Central to this solution, is our "webpage proximity scoring" feature which allows companies to grade web pages by unique combinations such as prevalence of a particular currency symbol, combination of words and serial numbers or IP registrant. Social media, blog and forum monitoring allows companies to target consumer and employee sentiment. This also allows them to detect phishing and affiliate scams, driving web traffic "away" from their site and potentially damaging their reputation.

Risk Management

This portfolio will be a crucial Portfolio to bring most elements of Risk Management and Brand Protection together to positively impact the collateral revenue opportunities. This critical pillar will be able to expand its product offerings and client base by delivering specialty niche services that complex international companies demand. This includes brand protection programs, Cyber Intelligence and due diligence in emerging markets. It will also offer unique approaches such as deployment of undercover operatives in corporate or industrial facilities or on the street, anywhere in the world, to acquire information not available by conventional means. We will employ industry "best practices", that are in use today and in development for tomorrow. We will have a complete line of consulting services, including on site security surveys, internal and external theft-prevention programs, threat analysis and protection of proprietary property. 

Custom App Software Development

(Serialization / T &#38; T)

Being the supplier to a company's supply chain allows us to create cradle to grave solutions, child to parent packaging controls and deal with Operations, Analytics, Finance and Marketing. This is critical to create major "prospect entry point" opportunities for supply chain product penetration. With a unique scalable product line, we will have the ability to react quickly to client needs and maximize available revenues.

Print Tech Services &#8211; Forensics, Labels &#38; Hangtags

Our proprietary forensic products under Trade Secret, makes use of emerging technology to create and detect specific detailed signatures invisible to the eye. This is our "Digital Forensic Marker&#8482;" for "tagging" product. Tagging typically occurs by incorporating particles containing a "signature" into a target substrate or product. The process for doing this will vary from material to material. Location, detection, and signature match times can all be tailored to fit the application. We offer a unique and varied blend of forensic code applications to fit our clients&#8223; needs for encoding and detecting.

Advertising and Marketing

Our marketing strategy will begin with word of mouth, which will always be our most important means of promotion. We will rely on the quality of our products and services that we have completed for our existing customers to create positive customer feedback, which could resonate to potential clients. If we generate sufficient revenues, we intend to implement an advertising and marketing campaign to increase awareness of the Company and to acquire new customers through multiple channels, including traditional and online advertising. We believe that the use of multiple marketing channels reduces reliance on any one source of customers, maximizes brand awareness and promotes customer acquisition.

Plan of Operations

To date, the Company has begun implementing its business plan and is attempting to secure additional funding to continue expansion of our services and products. The Company has not had any significant revenues generated from its business operations since inception. Until the Company is able to generate any consistent and significant revenue, it may be required to raise additional funds by way of equity or debt financing.

Government Regulation

Our operations are subject to government regulation in many areas, including user privacy, telecommunications, and data protection. The application of these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear and sometimes may conflict. It may take years to determine whether and how existing laws such as those governing intellectual property, privacy, advertising, etc. will apply. Nonetheless, laws and regulations directly applicable to communications and intellectual property are becoming more prevalent. Due to the increasing popularity and use of communications technology, it is possible that laws and regulations may be adopted covering issues such as user privacy, content, and much more. Compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that could result in reduced revenue. Noncompliance could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we stop the alleged noncompliant activity. At this time, however, we do not believe that compliance with these rules and regulations will have a material impact upon our business.

&#160;

WHERE YOU CAN GET ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy our reports or other filings made with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room, located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. You can obtain information on the operations of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. You can also access these reports and other filings electronically on the SEC's web site, www.sec.gov .

