 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

BUSINESS 

This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used in this report, the words "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "estimates," "plans," "believes," "continuing," "ongoing," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These are statements that relate to future events and include, but are not limited to, the factors that may impact our financial results; our expectations regarding revenue; our expectations with respect to our future research and development, general and administrative and selling and marketing expenses and our anticipated uses of our funds; our expectations regarding capital expenditures; our anticipated cash needs and our estimates regarding our capital requirements; our need for additional financing; potential future sources of cash; our business strategy and our ability to execute our strategy; our ability to achieve and maintain reimbursement from third-party payers at acceptable levels; the estimated size of the global markets for our tests and our future tests; the potential benefits of our tests and any future tests we may develop to patients, physicians and payers; the factors we believe drive demand for and reimbursement of our tests; our ability to sustain or increase demand for our tests; our intent to expand into other clinical areas; our ability to develop new tests, including tests for interstitial lung disease, and the timeframes for development or commercialization; our ability to get our data and clinical studies accepted in peer-reviewed publications; our dependence on and the terms of our agreements with Genzyme and TCP, and on other strategic relationships, and the success of those relationships; our beliefs regarding our laboratory capacity; the applicability of clinical results to actual outcomes; our expectations regarding our international expansion, including entering new international markets and the timing thereof; the occurrence, timing, outcome or success of clinical trials or studies; the ability of our tests to impact treatment decisions; our beliefs regarding our competitive position; our ability to compete with potential competitors; our compliance with federal, state and international regulations; the potential impact of regulation of our tests by the FDA or other regulatory bodies; the impact of new or changing policies, regulation or legislation, or of judicial decisions, on our business; our ability to comply with the requirements of being a public company; the impact of seasonal fluctuations and economic conditions on our business; our belief that we have taken reasonable steps to protect our intellectual property; the impact of accounting pronouncements and our critical accounting policies, judgments, estimates, models and assumptions on our financial results; and anticipated trends and challenges in our business and the markets in which we operate. 

Forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those risks discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this report, as well as risks and uncertainties related to: our limited operating history and history of losses since inception; our ability to increase usage of and reimbursement for our tests and any other tests we may develop; our dependence on a limited number of payers for a significant portion of our revenue; the complexity, time and expense associated with billing and collecting for our test; current and future laws, regulations and judicial decisions applicable to our business, including potential regulation by the FDA or by regulatory bodies outside of the United States; changes in legislation related to the U.S. healthcare system; our dependence on strategic relationships, collaborations and co-promotion arrangements; unanticipated delays in research and development efforts; our ability to develop and commercialize new products and the timing of commercialization; our ability to successfully enter new product or geographic markets; our ability to conduct clinical studies and the outcomes of such clinical studies; the applicability of clinical results to actual outcomes; trends and challenges in our business; our ability to compete against other companies and products; our ability to protect our intellectual property; and our ability to obtain capital when needed. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in our 

expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based. 

When used in this report, all references to "Veracyte," the "company," "we," "our" and "us" refer to Veracyte, Inc. 

Veracyte, Afirma, Percepta, the Veracyte logo and the Afirma logo are our trademarks. We also refer to trademarks of other corporations or organizations in this report. 

This annual report contains statistical data and estimates that we obtained from industry publications and reports. These publications typically indicate that they have obtained their information from sources they believe to be reliable, but do not guarantee the accuracy and completeness of their information. Some data contained in this annual report is also based on our internal estimates. Although we have not independently verified the third-party data, we are responsible for its inclusion in the annual report and believe it to be reasonable. 

Overview 

We are a molecular diagnostics company that uses novel genomics to resolve the critical healthcare problem of diagnostic ambiguity. We believe that diagnostic ambiguity results in hundreds of thousands of patients undergoing unnecessary, invasive procedures and wasting billions of healthcare dollars each year. We target diseases in which large numbers of patients undergo invasive and costly diagnostic procedures that could be avoided with a more accurate diagnosis from a cytology sample taken preoperatively. By improving diagnosis preoperatively, we help patients avoid such unnecessary invasive procedures and surgeries while reducing healthcare costs. Since Veracyte's founding in 2008, we have evolved this concept into an enterprise with two commercialized products and a third scheduled to launch in the fourth quarter of 2016, with approximately $50 million in annual revenue in 2015 and a near-term addressable market of over $2 billion. In 2016, we are focused on the continued growth of our endocrinology franchise and further expansion into pulmonology, our second clinical indication, using our proven approach to genomic test development and commercialization. 

We launched our first commercial solution, the Afirma&#174; Thyroid FNA Analysis, in 2011 for use in thyroid cancer diagnosis. Our offering centers on our proprietary Afirma Gene Expression Classifier, or GEC, which is used to resolve diagnostic ambiguity among the more than 525,000 patients who undergo fine needle aspiration, or FNA, biopsies each year in the United States to assess potentially cancerous thyroid nodules. The Afirma GEC helps physicians reduce the number of unnecessary surgeries by employing a proprietary 142-gene signature to preoperatively determine whether thyroid nodules previously classified by cytopathology as indeterminate can be reclassified as benign. An additional 25 genes are used to differentiate uncommon neoplasm subtypes. As of March 2016, we have received more than 225,000 FNA samples and have performed more than 50,000 Afirma GEC tests to resolve indeterminate cytopathology results, helping over 20,000 patients potentially avoid unnecessary surgery and reducing healthcare costs by an estimated $400 million. We estimate that our market penetration has doubled in the last two years, to approximately 25%, based on the number of Afirma GEC tests performed relative to an 18% rate of indeterminate results among the estimated 525,000 FNAs performed each year in the United States. We launched our first product extension&#151;the Afirma Malignancy Classifiers&#151;in 2014, which comprise genomic tests for medullary thyroid cancer, or MTC, and BRAF V600E mutation status. These genomic tests are intended to preoperatively inform physicians' choice of thyroid surgery when surgery is needed. We believe Afirma offers the most comprehensive, proven solution for the assessment and management of patients with thyroid nodules. We estimate our addressable thyroid market opportunity today is approximately $500 million per year in the United States, and we believe that there is an estimated $300 million additional market opportunity for the Afirma GEC internationally. 

The Afirma GEC is now supported by nearly 20 peer-reviewed, published scientific studies and we believe it is becoming a new standard of care in thyroid cancer diagnosis. A prospective, multicenter, 

double-blind clinical validation study was published in The New England Journal of Medicine in 2012 and suggested that the test can reduce the number of unnecessary surgeries by 50%. As of March 2016, the Afirma GEC is included in all of the recently updated thyroid-focused clinical practice guidelines and is covered by positive medical policies for nearly 180 million patient lives in the United States, including through Medicare and many commercial insurance plans. Additionally, we have established contracts with numerous health plans, making the Afirma GEC an in-network service for nearly 130 million lives. These include Medicare, UnitedHealthcare, Cigna, Aetna and several Blue Cross Blue Shield plans. 

We market our Afirma solution through our dedicated specialty sales force and, until mid-September 2016, under a co-promotion agreement with Genzyme, a subsidiary of Sanofi, which targets the same endocrinologist customers with Thyrogen&#174;. In March 2016, we notified Genzyme that we will conclude our co-promotion agreement with them and assume full responsibility for Afirma sales and marketing, while ending our payments of 15% of all U.S. Afirma sales. We believe our growing sales force enables us to further drive market penetration and expansion for Afirma, in the physician office, or ambulatory practice setting, as well as in regional laboratories, which we believe allows us to further penetrate the community physician market. Our customers also include radiology clinics and institutional accounts, including integrated delivery networks, or IDNs. We now offer sales models that meet the needs of our diverse customer base, and we believe we are positioned to continue to drive growth in all of these markets. To date, substantially all of our revenue has been derived from customers we serve in the United States. Our revenue has increased from $11.6 million in 2012, to $21.9 million in 2013, $38.2 million in 2014 and $49.5 million in 2015. 

In April 2015, we accelerated our entry into pulmonology, our second clinical area, with the launch of the Percepta&#174; Bronchial Genomic Classifier. The Percepta test is designed to improve the preoperative diagnosis of lung cancer, thus helping to reduce unnecessary invasive, risky and costly procedures among patients with suspicious lung nodules and lesions that were initially found on CT scans. Lung nodules are often difficult to diagnose without invasive biopsies. Bronchoscopy, however, offers a nonsurgical way to diagnose such suspicious lung nodules and lesions and is performed on approximately 250,000 patients in the United States each year for this purpose. However, approximately 40% of bronchoscopy procedures produce inconclusive results, leaving physicians with a diagnostic dilemma of whether to subject patients to invasive and potentially unnecessary procedures or just monitor them, with the chance that they may have cancer. Our initial focus is on building our library of clinical evidence, including clinical utility, for the Percepta classifier, while we secure coverage from Medicare and private payers. As of March 2016, we have expanded the number of thought-leading academic and other institutions to 40 that are now offering Percepta to their patients during this initial stage of commercialization. 

We believe the market opportunity for the Percepta Bronchial Genomic Classifier is between $350 million and $400 million in the United States, depending on the value we can extract for our test. We estimate that the number of bronchoscopies&#151;and inconclusive results&#151;could expand significantly in the next two to three years as, beginning in early 2015, more than eight million Americans at high risk for lung cancer have become eligible for annual screening through the Affordable Care Act and Medicare coverage. 

Clinical validation data from two multicenter, prospective studies&#151;AEGIS I and II&#151;were published in July 2015 in The New England Journal of Medicine and showed that the Percepta classifier had a negative predictive value, or NPV, of 91%, demonstrating the test's ability to reclassify patients as low risk, with a high degree of accuracy, following an inconclusive bronchoscopy result. The authors concluded that these patients could potentially be monitored with CT scans, rather than face invasive diagnostic procedures. The AEGIS data also showed that use of the Percepta classifier increased the sensitivity of bronchoscopy from 75% to 97%, suggesting that it could potentially improve the clinical utility of this nonsurgical procedure. Clinical validation data from a third study were published in May 2015 in BMC Medical Genomics and similarly showed an NPV for the Percepta test of greater than 90%. Additionally, initial clinical utility data, derived from the AEGIS trials, were published in February 2016 online in CHEST , the 

official journal of the American College of Chest Physicians. These data suggest that use of the Percepta test could have decreased unnecessary, invasive procedures by 50% in the evaluated patient population. Also in February 2016, analytical verification data for the Percepta classifier were published online in BMC Cancer, establishing the quality and reproducibility of our testing processes. We expect to expand the library of clinical evidence supporting the adoption and reimbursement of the Percepta test in 2016. 

We also plan to expand our footprint in pulmonology in 2016 with the launch of a product designed to preoperatively identify idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, or IPF, among patients presenting with a suspected interstitial lung disease, or ILD. Our IPF test will target pulmonologists, the same physicians with the Percepta test, and will also test cytology samples obtained through bronchoscopy. IPF is the most common form of ILD, a group of diseases characterized by chronic, progressive scarring of the lungs, and is often difficult to distinguish from other ILDs. Currently, many of the estimated 175,000 to 200,000 patients in the United States and Europe who present with suspected ILDs each year may endure months of incorrect or missed diagnoses, undergoing invasive, risky and expensive diagnostic surgeries, or receiving suboptimal treatment. The need for improved IPF diagnosis is increasingly important given the availability of new therapies to halt or slow progression of this often-fatal disease, which were approved by the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, in late 2014. We estimate the addressable market for our IPF test to be over $500 million in the United States and Europe. 

We presented data at the American Thoracic Society International Conference in May 2015 and at the Pulmonary Fibrosis Foundation, or PFF, Summit 2015: From Bench to Bedside in November demonstrating the ability of our in-development molecular classifier to help distinguish IPF from other ILDs on samples obtained through bronchoscopy. In May 2015, The Lancet Respiratory Medicine also published an article online, which detailed foundational work in the test's development and results from an independent test set, demonstrating the classifier's performance using patient samples obtained through surgery. We are working with key leading thought leaders and more than 25 sites across the United States and Europe to finalize development of our classifier test and unveil validation results from multicenter, prospective clinical validation studies. We expect to initiate commercialization in the fourth quarter of 2016. 

We believe additional clinical areas offer opportunities for future expansion of our molecular cytology franchise beyond endocrinology and pulmonology. In determining new clinical areas to enter, we will focus on diseases in which a large number of patients undergo invasive and costly diagnostic procedures that could be avoided with a more accurate diagnosis from a cytology sample taken preoperatively. 

Our Strategy 

We believe the market opportunities are significant and have focused our strategic objectives around these four growth vectors: 

&#149; Accelerate the Growth of Afirma in Endocrinology. We expect to continue to invest in driving the adoption of Afirma and expanding our base of prescribing physicians, both in the community physician office market as well as in institutional settings, offering flexible models that address our customers' diverse needs. We plan to continue to leverage and expand our sales force, comprised of endocrine product specialists, account managers and institutional channel managers in the U.S. market, as we transition from our co-promotion relationship with Genzyme. We also intend to pursue select international markets for entry where attractive regulations and reimbursement exists. We plan to use our inclusion in clinical practice guidelines and the extensive library of published evidence on Afirma to date, coupled with our core expertise in managed care, claims adjudication, and billing, to drive even broader coverage determinations and to convert coverage determinations into additional in-network contracts with payers, in order to expand adoption and reimbursement. &#149; Broaden the Launch of Percepta. We believe our molecular cytology strategy could address several unmet clinical needs in pulmonology. We commercially launched our Percepta Bronchial Genomic 4 

Classifier, designed to improve lung cancer diagnosis, in April 2015 and plan to continue to secure adoption by leading institutions as we build our library of clinical evidence, including additional clinical utility data, and work to secure Medicare and private-payer reimbursement. Upon obtaining Medicare reimbursement, we plan to scale our sales and marketing efforts, to secure customers nationwide, beyond the approximately 50 thought-leader sites originally targeted for the first phase of our launch. 

&#149; Expand Pulmonology Offering with Launch of Our IPF Test. We plan to further expand our molecular cytology platform within the pulmonology vertical with the introduction of a test to improve the diagnosis of patients suspicious for ILD, specifically IPF. To support the IPF test's introduction, we plan to complete clinical validation work demonstrating its performance on patient samples collected prospectively from more than 25 clinical sites around the United States and Europe. We plan to commercially introduce the test in the fourth quarter of 2016. Similar to our approach with Afirma and Percepta, we plan to focus on initial adoption among leading sites as we further build out the clinical evidence, including clinical utility data, for the test and work to secure reimbursement from Medicare and private payers. &#149; Expand Our Franchise into Additional Indications with Diagnostic Ambiguity. We intend to leverage our demonstrated core capabilities in research and development, clinical development, and managed care and reimbursement to expand our business into other clinical areas of unmet need, where we can resolve diagnostic ambiguity, either through internal development or through acquisition. For each clinical area we target, we deploy a proven strategy comprised of four key pillars: &#149; Inform the Right Clinical Question . We focus on developing genomic tests that answer a relevant clinical question and that, when used at the optimal point in the diagnostic pathway, provide physicians with information that can significantly alter physician decision-making, enabling patients to avoid unnecessary invasive and costly procedures. We then work with key opinion leaders and other clinicians to understand the performance criteria that will be needed for a new test to give physicians confidence to change clinical-care decisions. Only when we have pinpointed this information do we then deploy the appropriate science to develop the test. &#149; Develop Proprietary Science and Validate in Well-designed Clinical Trials . Once we know the parameters of the test we need to develop to change patient care, we apply rich, broad-based genomic science based on our expertise in biomarker discovery and algorithm development. We utilize proprietary technology, intellectual property and scientific know-how to extract rich genomic information from tiny cytology samples, sometimes with only nanogram quantities of biological material, to answer our target clinical question. We then conduct prospective, blinded, multicenter clinical validation studies and seek to obtain publication in peer-reviewed journals to establish the clinical performance of our test. &#149; Demonstrate Clear Value . We build into our commercialization strategy the steps that will be needed to prove that our tests do indeed change clinical practice and provide healthcare cost savings. To do this, we design and initiate clinical utility and cost-effectiveness studies early in the process so that we will be able to quickly and efficiently demonstrate value to physicians and payers. &#149; Achieve Coverage and Reimbursement Success . By developing the clinical evidence for our tests, which is then published in peer-reviewed journals, we create compelling evidence for our tests to be included in clinical practice guidelines, helping to establish a new routine standard of care. We believe guideline inclusion, along with the capabilities we have built in managed care and claims adjudication, is key to obtaining successful payer coverage, contracts and reimbursement. Our team combines expertise in advocating for positive coverage decisions 5 

with specific insights into what tactical steps will maximize reimbursement from each payer. As a result, we have developed detailed knowledge of the intricacies of specific payer practices and requirements, which informs and allows us to leverage our strategy across indication selection, clinical study design, marketing and sales. 

Limitations of Disease Diagnosis Today 

Surgical pathology has long been part of the standard of care for diagnosis of numerous complex diseases, including many types of cancer and lung diseases. Patient samples collected from surgeries allow multiple slices, or sections, of the tissue to be stained, permitting a pathologist to use a microscope to evaluate the shape and structure of the cells in question to diagnose the sample. However, surgical pathology by definition requires an invasive procedure. Cytopathology, or the analysis of small numbers of cells using minimally invasive methods (which we refer to as cytology samples), is designed to provide a pathologic diagnosis using a small biopsy. It is often the first step in the diagnostic process because it offers a less-invasive and cost-effective alternative to surgery. However, because cytology samples are often small and non-uniform, definitive diagnoses can be difficult. In some cases, physicians may forego less-invasive procedures to obtain cytology samples because they do not believe they will yield diagnostic results. Moreover, the high rate of ambiguity in diagnosis using cytology samples today results in many patients undergoing other subsequent invasive procedures, often including surgery, to obtain an accurate diagnosis. 

The role of genomic information in medical practice is evolving rapidly and has affected the diagnosis of disease as well as treatment decisions. Over the past decade, molecular diagnostic tests that analyze genomic material from surgical tissue samples have emerged as an important complement to evaluations performed by pathologists. Information at the molecular level enables one to understand more fully the makeup and specific subtype of disease to improve diagnosis. In many cases, the genomic information derived from these samples can help guide treatment decisions as part of the standard of care. However, due to limitations of available technologies, many of these molecular tests require relatively large quantities of tissue with specific levels of cellularity, which most often must be obtained through an invasive surgical procedure. 

Cytology samples offer a more attractive alternative for early, less invasive and less costly diagnosis. These samples are commonly obtained using minimally invasive methods, such as FNA biopsies, washings, brushings, lavages or bronchoscopy biopsies, from which to diagnose various diseases. Physicians typically collect these samples without performing surgery, and therefore have the potential to offer a lower cost and less invasive approach to disease diagnosis. Cytology samples, however, are challenging for both traditional cytopathology, as well as molecular cytology, due to the small amount of cellular material obtained in the collection process and the often non-uniform nature of the collected tissue. 

Extracting clinically meaningful genomic information from these small, heterogeneous cytology samples offers the potential to reduce ambiguity in diagnosis prior to surgery and inform treatment decisions at a much lower cost to the healthcare system. 

Our Solutions 

We are developing and delivering genomic solutions that resolve diagnostic ambiguity and enable physicians to make more informed treatment decisions at an early stage in patient care. We target diseases in which a large number of patients undergo invasive and costly diagnostic procedures that could be avoided with a more accurate diagnosis from a cytology sample taken preoperatively. In contrast to molecular diagnostics developed for surgical tissue, our solutions solve many of the technical challenges associated with generating analytically valid and clinically relevant genomic information from very small, heterogeneous cytology samples. By improving diagnosis before surgery, we help patients avoid unnecessary invasive procedures while reducing healthcare costs. 

Our molecular cytology solutions are designed to deliver a number of benefits to physicians, payers and patients, including a reduction of unnecessary surgeries, lower healthcare costs, and actionable information by integrating our genomic tests into the diagnostic clinical pathway that is the standard of care today. 

Our initial focus is on the clinical areas of endocrinology, where we have made significant inroads to date, and pulmonology, which we entered in mid-2015. Together, we believe these two market opportunities offer a near-term estimated addressable market of over $2 billion. 

Our Endocrinology Solution 

We entered the endocrinology market in January 2011 with our Afirma Thyroid FNA Analysis, which is now included in leading practice guidelines and gaining market share in thyroid cancer diagnosis. Our offering centers on our proprietary Afirma GEC, which is used to resolve diagnostic ambiguity among the more than 525,000 patients who undergo FNA procedures each year to assess thyroid nodules that are potentially cancerous. We launched our first product extension&#151;the Afirma Malignancy Classifiers&#151;in May 2014, comprising tests for MTC and BRAF V600E gene mutation status to provide results that might preoperatively inform surgery selection for those patients who need surgery. 

As of March 2016, we have received more than 225,000 FNA samples and have performed more than 50,000 GEC tests to resolve indeterminate cytopathology results, helping over 20,000 patients avoid unnecessary surgery and reducing healthcare costs by an estimated $400 million. The Afirma GEC is covered as a medically necessary test for nearly 180 million lives, including through Medicare and many commercial payers including UnitedHealthcare, Cigna, Aetna, Humana, Health Care Services Corporation, or HCSC, and other leading Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield plans such as Highmark, Horizon Blue Cross, and Blue Shield of California, for a total of more than 45 million covered Blues plan members. Afirma is contracted for nearly 130 million lives, making us an in-network provider for payers including Medicare, UnitedHealthcare, Cigna, Aetna and more than seven million Blues plan members, which facilitates adoption. On March 1, 2015, a separate CPT code, or Current Procedural Terminology code, for the Afirma GEC, was issued which we believe will continue to facilitate our progress with payer coverage and contracts, and reimbursement. The new code became effective January 1, 2016. 

We estimate that our market penetration has doubled in the last two years, to approximately 25%, based on the number of Afirma GEC tests performed relative to an 18% rate of indeterminate results among the estimated 525,000 FNAs performed each year in the United States. 

Our Pulmonology Solution 

We launched our first pulmonology product&#151;for improved lung cancer diagnosis&#151;in April 2015. The Percepta Bronchial Genomic Classifier is designed to help resolve diagnostic ambiguity among the approximately 250,000 patients each year who undergo bronchoscopy to determine if lung nodules or lesions are benign or cancerous. Our solution is intended to identify patients with inconclusive bronchoscopy results whose nodules or lesions, initially found on CT scans, are at low risk of being cancerous, so these patients can potentially avoid unnecessary invasive, risky and costly diagnostic procedures and be monitored with low-dose computed tomography, or LDCT, instead. Early adoption of the Percepta classifier in April 2015 was supported by the subsequent publication in July 2015 of clinical validation data in The New England Journal of Medicine . Our initial commercialization focus is on securing adoption among leading institutions as we build our library of clinical evidence, including additional clinical utility data, and secure Medicare and private-payer reimbursement. As of March 2016, 40 thought-leading academic and other customers across the country are offering Percepta to their patients, and we are on track to secure the approximately 50 active sites we are initially targeting by mid-2016. 

We believe our introduction of Percepta will facilitate the subsequent launch in the fourth quarter of 2016 of our IPF test, which will target the same customers, pulmonologists, and will similarly be run on 

cytology samples obtained through bronchoscopy. Our IPF test is intended to preoperatively identify, using deep RNA sequencing, patients with IPF among those presenting with a suspected ILD, so that these patients can obtain an accurate diagnosis and proper treatment sooner&#151;without the need for invasive surgery. We have collaborated with more than 25 clinical sites in the United States and Europe to develop our IPF test and to prospectively collect patient samples for use in its subsequent clinical validation, which we expect to complete this year. We plan to launch the test in the fourth quarter of 2016 and to then begin assembling the evidence to demonstrate the test's clinical utility. In addition to our collaboration with clinical thought leaders, we partnered with the Pulmonary Fibrosis Foundation on a patient survey designed to quantify and qualify the extensive challenges that ILD/IPF patients face in obtaining a timely, accurate diagnosis. Findings from the survey were presented at the PFF 2015 Summit: From Bench to Bedside in November 2015. 

The Endocrinology Market 

Our Afirma solution addresses the large and growing thyroid market, which is burdened with significant ambiguity in cytopathology results, offering the potential to reduce the rate of surgery needed to diagnose and subsequently treat thyroid cancers. 

Thyroid cancer is the fastest growing cancer in the United States, according to the American Cancer Society, and evaluation of thyroid nodules&#151;the most common indicator of thyroid cancer&#151;is rapidly increasing the number of thyroid FNAs conducted. Approximately 525,000 thyroid FNAs were performed in the United States in 2011, which is more than double the number of FNAs performed in 2006. We estimate our addressable thyroid market opportunity today is approximately $500 million per year in the United States, consisting of an estimated $100 million in cytopathology testing, $350 million in Afirma GEC tests performed on indeterminate cytopathology samples and an additional $40 million related to our Afirma Malignancy Classifiers. Our estimates are based on the product of FNA volumes and the estimated reimbursement per test for both cytology and the Afirma GEC, not our list price at which we bill. We believe that there is an estimated $300 million additional market opportunity for the Afirma GEC internationally. 

The biology of thyroid cells is complex. Approximately 15% to 30% of thyroid nodule FNAs performed in the United States are deemed indeterminate following cytopathology review, meaning they cannot be diagnosed as definitively benign or malignant by cytopathology alone. Because the risk of malignancy in such patients ranges from 20% to 30%, clinical practice guidelines have traditionally recommended that most of these patients undergo surgery to remove all or part of the thyroid for a definitive diagnosis. Following surgery, however, 70% to 80% of these patients prove to have benign nodules, meaning the surgery was unnecessary. We estimate each surgery costs $15,000 to over $20,000 on average. Additionally, such surgeries have a complication rate of 2% to 10%, and most patients subsequently require lifelong thyroid hormone replacement therapy. 

We estimate that approximately 3,500 endocrinologists specialize in thyroid disease and perform FNAs. We also serve other specialists, including radiologists and ear, nose and throat, or ENT, physicians who similarly perform FNAs. Approximately 60% of FNAs are performed in ambulatory, or community-based, practices, with the remaining 40% conducted in institutional settings, comprised of both academic centers and integrated delivery networks, which are networks of facilities and providers that work together to offer a continuum of care to a specific geographic area or market. While endocrinologists generally diagnose patients and refer them to surgery when necessary, endocrinologists do not perform the surgeries themselves. Institutions, which influence standard of care, typically have cytopathology laboratories on-site, to which the institutions' endocrinologists submit patient samples for review. Additional stakeholders that may be involved in the decision-making process in institutions include radiologists, pathologists and, occasionally, administration. We offer Afirma to institutional customers as an option following their internal cytopathology testing, and receive orders for the Afirma GEC only and/or the Malignancy Classifiers from these customers. We refer to this as our Afirma Diagnostic Partner model. We similarly offer this model to a number of regional laboratories, which perform the cytopathology testing and send the indeterminate samples to us for Afirma GEC testing only, which enables us to further penetrate the local-physician market. This approach represents a higher margin opportunity versus in settings where we also conduct the lower margin cytopathology assessment. 

Afirma Thyroid FNA Analysis 

Launched in 2011, the Afirma Thyroid FNA Analysis is our comprehensive offering for thyroid nodule assessment. The solution centers on our proprietary Afirma GEC to resolve indeterminate FNA results, based on cytopathology, so that patients whose nodules are benign can avoid unnecessary diagnostic surgery and undergo routine monitoring instead. The Afirma GEC is a 142-gene signature that is proven in multiple peer-reviewed, published studies to identify benign nodules with a high level of accuracy among those deemed indeterminate by cytopathology. An additional 25 genes are used to differentiate uncommon neoplasm subtypes. Data suggest the Afirma GEC can enable unnecessary surgeries to be reduced by approximately 50%. Our comprehensive solution also includes our Afirma Malignancy Classifiers&#151;comprised of tests for medullary thyroid cancer, a rare and aggressive form of thyroid cancer, and BRAF V600E gene mutational status, which is often predictive for papillary thyroid cancer&#151;which were launched in May 2014 to preoperatively help inform selection of surgery when surgery is needed, minimizing the need for patients to undergo an additional "completion surgery." The MTC test result is included as part of the patient report when an Afirma GEC is performed on any FNA that is indeterminate by cytopathology. Physicians can also order it separately for use on FNAs that are malignant by cytopathology. The BRAF test is performed when ordered specifically by the physician on either GEC suspicious or malignant by cytopathology FNAs. 

The Afirma Thyroid FNA Analysis includes initial cytopathology to optimize utilization of the Afirma GEC, ensuring that the test is used appropriately and without the need for patients to return for a repeat 

FNA procedure. We offer the Afirma GEC through two models, designed to meet the needs of both our community-practice and institutional and regional laboratory customers. 

Our Total Solution Model 

This model allows community-based physicians to implement Afirma in their practice without any meaningful changes to their workflow. Samples for both cytopathology and the Afirma GEC are collected during one FNA procedure using well-accepted and widely-used techniques. Customers send both the cytopathology and the Afirma GEC samples overnight to our CLIA-certified laboratory in Austin, Texas. After we accession the samples into our laboratory information system, the Afirma GEC samples are stored in a freezer while the cytopathology samples are prepared and stained for review by Thyroid Cytopathology Partners, or TCP, a specialized cytopathology practice in Austin, Texas that provides professional diagnoses on these samples. When cytopathology results are indeterminate, we send the stored sample to our CLIA-certified laboratory in South San Francisco, California, where we perform the Afirma GEC and/or Malignancy Classifiers. Results are provided to the ordering physician via a comprehensive report that provides cytopathology results and identifies the Afirma GEC results as either "benign" or "suspicious" for malignancy and the Afirma Malignancy Classifiers as "positive" or "negative." 

Approximately 14% to 17% of thyroid FNA biopsies from TCP have been classified as indeterminate and have been reflexed to the GEC. This rate is at the low end of the 15% to 30% range cited in the 2009 

American Thyroid Association Guidelines, suggesting TCP's specialized focus on thyroid cytopathology offers results that are more consistent with those of academic settings. Through our relationship with TCP, the high quality of care historically only accessible to patients in academic settings is now broadly available. By using a large, high-volume, thyroid-specialized pathology practice to offer consistent cytopathology analysis, we can optimize quality and manage appropriate utilization, helping to ensure that the Afirma GEC is not run on cytologically benign or malignant samples, or where the FNA contains insufficient cellular material for diagnosis. We believe this ability to manage utilization is attractive to payers looking to capture the value we promise in patient care. In the fourth quarter of 2015, approximately 87% of the FNAs we received were for the Afirma total solution model. 

Afirma Diagnostic Partner Model 

In this model, academic and hospital-based customers as well as integrated delivery networks typically perform their own cytopathology analysis and then only send us samples for Afirma GEC testing when the cytopathology result is indeterminate. We also receive samples to perform the Afirma Malignancy Classifiers either in addition to the GEC or for patients with a suspicious for malignancy result by cytopathology. In this scenario, the physician collects the FNA sample for GEC testing at the same time the FNA sample is collected for cytopathology review. The GEC test sample is preserved until the cytopathology results are processed. When the cytopathology result is reported, the preserved FNA sample is sent overnight to our CLIA-certified laboratory for testing, using the Afirma GEC when the result is indeterminate and/or using the Malignancy Classifier analysis for suspicious samples. 

Similarly, we offer the Afirma Diagnostic Partner model to regional laboratories that serve community-based physicians, which allows us to further penetrate this market. With this approach, the physician collects the FNA sample for Afirma GEC testing at the same time the FNA sample is collected for cytopathology review. The physician sends both samples to the regional laboratory, which preserves the Afirma GEC test sample until the cytopathology results are processed. If the cytopathology results are indeterminate, the laboratory sends via overnight service the preserved FNA sample for Afirma GEC testing in our CLIA laboratory. Similarly, samples with suspicious cytopathology results are sent to our South San Francisco-CLIA laboratory for Malignancy Classifier analysis. In the fourth quarter of 2015, approximately 13% of the FNAs we received were from the Afirma Diagnostic Partner. 

Whether the final result is rendered by cytopathology alone or a combination of cytopathology and genomic testing, physicians receive an actionable answer based on samples collected in a single patient visit. 

Our Afirma Growth Strategy 

Our business growth is predominantly driven by growth of the Afirma GEC. Key initiatives include: 

&#149; Continue to Drive Afirma as the Leading, Comprehensive Solution for Managing Patients with Thyroid Nodules. We believe that Afirma offers a unique, market-leading solution that enables patients to avoid unnecessary surgeries and provides cost savings. Our service models fit the needs of multiple specialties that perform or evaluate FNAs, in a variety of settings, providing a comprehensive assessment, preoperatively, on a single FNA collected on the first patient visit. We are advancing this value proposition by reinforcing our market-leadership position and through patient-centered marketing messages and content. &#149; Expand and Deepen Our Penetration through our Diagnostic Partner Model. We believe that, in addition to community endocrinologist and ENT customers, radiology practices, hospital-based laboratories, integrated delivery networks, and regional pathology laboratories present an opportunity to conduct more Afirma GEC tests at the local level. Community physicians often refer their thyroid nodule patients to radiology centers or hospital-based radiologists for FNA procedures, which are often performed using ultrasound-guided techniques. Additionally, regional 11 

pathology laboratories often perform cytopathology for community physicians. We believe that partnering with these diverse clients provides us with an opportunity to further grow our Afirma GEC business, while also enabling these practices to enhance their offerings to their referring physician customers. 

&#149; Expanded our Sales Force. We grew our internal sales force in 2015, enabling us to further drive market penetration and expansion for Afirma, in both the ambulatory physician practice setting as well as in institutional accounts and integrated delivery networks. We expect to continue growing this dedicated sales force to position us to further penetrate the market and to transition as we exit our co-promotion agreement with Genzyme. &#149; Strengthen Marketing Programs. We support our sales efforts with comprehensive marketing initiatives that include medical education, speaker programs for physicians to share their experience with Afirma, as well as more traditional promotional campaigns targeting endocrinologists and other physicians and patients who have been diagnosed with a thyroid nodule. We also provide marketing materials and tools for referral practices, enabling them to promote their use of Afirma to their physician customers. &#149; Drive Payer Coverage and Contracts. Many physicians typically require a test to have broad coverage and be offered by a service provider that has in-network status before they will offer it to their patients. We will continue our efforts to advance payer coverage decisions and contracts to facilitate rapid adoption of Afirma among ordering physicians. With Medicare and most of the leading commercial payers covering Afirma, including large Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans, we intend to focus our efforts on obtaining coverage from remaining "Blues" plans. Additionally, we are expanding our resources to negotiate and secure in-network contracts which we believe will facilitate adoption as well as provide more predictable reimbursement and revenue. Development of the Afirma Gene Expression Classifier and Malignancy Classifiers 

We used a whole-genome approach to develop the Afirma GEC, identifying gene expression patterns that we believed could best identify a benign thyroid nodule signature in thyroid FNA samples diagnosed as indeterminate by cytopathology. We utilized microarray technology to perform whole-genome analyses on hundreds of thyroid samples, producing a rich database of more than one billion genomic measurements of thyroid biology. We initially measured mRNA expression in over 247,000 transcripts before selecting the target genes to be measured. We acquired large numbers of FNA samples taken at endocrinology practices across the United States in the early development of the Afirma GEC. Because thyroid cancer is a complex disease with multiple, sometimes rare, subtypes, this approach provided the diversity of clinical samples that would be encountered both during clinical validation and in commercial practice. Our scientists then developed machine-learning algorithms using sophisticated statistical approaches to distill the large amount of genomic data and to address FNA sample variability, dilution effects and RNA quantity and quality challenges. The development of the Afirma GEC first on thyroid surgical tissue and then on thyroid FNA samples was first published in 2010 in the Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism. Using our extensive thyroid-genomic database derived from the whole-genome discovery work that led to the GEC, which we believe to be the largest single data set for thyroid conditions, we developed the Afirma Malignancy Classifiers as an extension to the GEC. 

Additionally, our research and development team continues to evaluate potential opportunities to use new genomic discoveries and technologies to further improve patient care. For example, data presented in October 2015 at the International Thyroid Congress and Annual Meeting of the American Thyroid Association and subsequently published in BMC BioInformatics in January 2016 contributed to the scientific understanding of the role that gene variant and fusion data, derived from deep RNA sequencing, can potentially play in thyroid cancer diagnosis. 

Published Evidence for Afirma 

We believe that developing an extensive library of rigorous clinical evidence to support our tests is critical to driving inclusion in clinical guidelines, securing reimbursement and gaining physician adoption. To this end, nearly 20 scientific studies supporting Afirma have been published in peer-reviewed journals. These include two clinical validation, one analytical verification, 15 clinical utility&#151;including two long-term durability&#151;and two cost-effectiveness studies. Following is an overview of some of the key studies. 

Clinical Validation 

Preoperative Diagnosis of Benign Thyroid Nodules with Indeterminate Cytology (Alexander, The New England Journal of Medicine, 2012) 

In this study, which was sponsored by us and conducted with the support of institutional research grants from us, our Afirma GEC exhibited a negative predictive value, or NPV, of 95% for indeterminate results in the atypia or follicular lesion of undetermined significance category (AUS/FLUS) and 94% for indeterminate results in the suspicious for follicular or H&#252;rthle cell neoplasm category (SFN/SHN) and reclassified as benign over half of the true benign FNA samples that had indeterminate cytopathology diagnoses, which the authors defined to include any results suspicious for malignancy in addition to AUS/FLUS and SFN/SHN. This pivotal validation study employed a prospective, multicenter, double-blind study design to validate the accuracy of preoperative Afirma GEC benign results compared to post-operative expert pathology review. It was the second prospective multicenter study validating the Afirma GEC approach. The study supported the consideration of a more conservative approach than surgery for most patients with thyroid nodules that are cytologically indeterminate but benign according to Afirma GEC results. 

This large multicenter study included 49 academic and community practices across 26 states over 19 months. The study involved patients with ultrasonographically confirmed thyroid nodules one centimeter or larger in diameter. 4,812 thyroid FNA samples were prospectively collected from 3,789 patients. In the independent validation set of 265 nodules that were indeterminate by cytopathology, 85 were subsequently determined malignant by surgical pathology, equivalent to a 32% risk of malignancy. The Afirma GEC correctly identified 78 of the 85 malignant nodules as suspicious, a 92% sensitivity (95% confidence interval, or CI, 84 to 97). The Afirma GEC achieved a 52% specificity (95% CI 44 to 59) and reclassified as benign over half of the true benign FNA samples that had indeterminate cytopathology diagnoses. The authors concluded that a benign Afirma GEC result has a post-test probability of malignancy that is similar to the probability for operated nodules with cytologically benign features on an FNA, making watchful waiting a safe and effective clinical option for these patients. 

Molecular Classification of Thyroid Nodules using High-Dimensionality Genomic Data (Chudova, Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism, 2010) 

In this study, which we sponsored, our FNA trained classifier exhibited an NPV of 96% on a modest sized test set of FNA samples, demonstrating an NPV similar to operated nodules with benign FNA cytology. In this study, the authors defined indeterminate results to include any cytological results suspicious for malignancy in addition to AUS/FLUS and SFN/SHN. This prospective, multicenter, double-blind study was the first study on an independent modest-sized set of FNA samples to clinically validate the gene expression classifier approach. In addition, this study demonstrated that even with substantial degradation of RNA and in the presence of blood, in some cases with dilution of up to 80%, the GEC correctly recognized benign nodules and did not miss malignancy in the majority of FNA samples. 

The GEC was prospectively validated on an independent test set of 48 FNA samples, one-half of which had indeterminate cytopathology. The GEC exhibited an NPV of 96% and a specificity of 84%. The reference gold standard in this outcome study was the post-operative determination of whether the thyroid 

nodule was benign or malignant by expert endocrine surgical pathologists who were blinded to the GEC results. The authors concluded that the GEC performance and validation conducted on an independent validation set demonstrated a high enough specificity to reclassify over half of indeterminate FNAs as benign and that the observed NPV indicated that those nodules classified as benign by the GEC carry a similar risk of malignancy as a benign diagnosis by thyroid nodule FNA cytopathology alone. 

Clinical Utility/Long-term Durability 

The Impact of Benign Gene Expression Classifier Test Results on the Endocrinologist-patient Decision to Operate in Patients with Thyroid Nodules with Indeterminate Fine Needle Aspiration Cytopathology (Duick, Thyroid, 2012) 

This study, which was sponsored by us and supported with institutional research grants, found that approximately one surgery was avoided for every two GECs run on thyroid FNAs with indeterminate cytopathology, which the authors defined to include any results suspicious for malignancy in addition to AUS/FLUS and SFN/SHN. This study evaluated the clinical utility of the Afirma GEC in a multicenter, cross-sectional survey of the endocrinologists' decision to operate on patients with a cytopathology indeterminate FNA and a benign Afirma GEC result. The study reviewed the first 2,040 GEC tests performed on samples that were classified as indeterminate by cytopathology, of which the Afirma GEC reclassified 52.3% of these results as benign. In the study, a cohort of 51 endocrinologists (46 community based; five academic based) at 21 practice sites in 11 states completed case report forms on whether surgery was recommended for their Afirma benign patients. Of 368 unique patients (395 cytopathology indeterminate FNAs) for whom data was collected, physicians and patients opted for watchful waiting in lieu of diagnostic thyroid surgery 92.4% of the time when the Afirma GEC result reclassified the patient's indeterminate nodule as benign. Surgery was performed on only 7.6% (95% CI 5.1 to 10.8) of patients, compared to the 74% historic rate of surgery on indeterminate thyroid nodules previously reported by Thyroid in 2011, a 90% relative reduction in the decision to operate (p &#60; 0.001). Additionally, this 7.6% rate of surgery is similar to the 9.0% rate of surgery associated with cytology benign FNA results and reflects other factors considered by physicians, including the size and growth rate of the nodule, the presence of other suspicious or malignant nodules, and other symptoms. The study demonstrates the effect of the GEC on clinical decision making for patients with indeterminate thyroid nodules. 

Multicenter Clinical Experience with the Afirma Gene Expression Classifier (Alexander, Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism, 2014)* 

This study sought to determine how use of the Afirma GEC affects clinical practice in a real-world environment. Researchers at five academic centers followed all thyroid nodule patients who were tested with the Afirma GEC following indeterminate biopsy results based on cytopathology between 2010 and 2013. Among the 339 patients with indeterminate thyroid nodules, the Afirma GEC identified 174 (51%) as benign and, of these, 71 patients were followed clinically for an average of nine months. Of these 71 patients, only one cancer was identified over the course of the study, confirming a high NPV for the Afirma GEC of over 95%, which is similar to the malignancy risk of a benign cytopathology result. These findings reaffirm data from the initial validation trial published previously in The New England Journal of Medicine . The study also supports previous findings regarding the clinical utility of the Afirma GEC, as only 6% of patients with nodules identified as benign by our test underwent surgery. 

* A co-author of this study was a consultant and member of our clinical advisory board, and owned shares of our common stock at the time of the study. 14 

Afirma Benign Thyroid Nodules Show Similar Growth to Cytologically Benign Nodules During Follow-Up (Angell, Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism, 2015) 

This independent, long-term durability study found that thyroid nodules classified as benign by the Afirma GEC had similar rates of growth during extended follow-up as nodules that were benign by cytopathology, which suggests comparable clinical behavior. Researchers at Brigham and Women's Hospital evaluated 90 patients whose thyroid nodule FNAs were deemed benign by the Afirma GEC (following indeterminate cytopathology) between 2010 and 2014. Using ultrasound data available for 58 nodules in 56 of the patients, they compared rates of growth&#151;an indicator of potential cancer&#151;over a median of 13 months (range of 4 to 40 months) to those of 1,224 thyroid nodules with benign cytopathology results. The latter were from 873 patients who underwent FNA procedures over a ten-year period prior to the introduction of the Afirma GEC and who were followed with ultrasound for a similar period of time. They found that Afirma GEC-benign nodules showed similar growth as the cytopathology-benign cases using either of two criteria: &#179; 20% in two dimensions (8.6% vs. 8.3%) or &#179; 50% in volume (17.2% vs. 13.8%). The authors noted that they report on change in Afirma-benign nodules during a clinically relevant monitoring period, as cytologically benign thyroid nodules are typically followed with ultrasound at six to 18 months. They concluded that the findings suggest that physicians may monitor patients with benign Afirma GEC results, just as they would with patients whose cytopathology results are benign. 

Cost-effectiveness 

Cost-effectiveness of a Novel Molecular Test for Cytologically Indeterminate Thyroid Nodules (Li, Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism, 2011) &#169;The Endocrine Society* 

This clinical study was conducted by researchers from the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. Supported with a research grant from us, the authors found that use of the GEC can potentially avoid almost three-fourths of currently performed surgeries in patients with benign nodules but indeterminate cytopathology results, which the authors defined to include any results suspicious for malignancy in addition to AUS/FLUS and SFN/SHN. 

Researchers modeled the direct cost savings of utilizing the Afirma GEC in clinical practice. They developed a 16-state Markov decision model based upon the 2009 American Thyroid Association Guidelines for the treatment of adult patients with thyroid nodules with an FNA cytopathology indeterminate diagnosis. The decision model was based on clinical validation study results and expert opinion though model variables necessarily require a substantial degree of judgment. One million patient simulations were run through the decision model to represent five years of treatment and follow-up for patients who first presented with cytologically indeterminate thyroid nodules. Utilization of the Afirma GEC yielded an estimated direct cost savings of $1,453 and an increase of 0.07 quality adjusted life years, or QALYs, per patient, a modest increase in the quality of life. A Monte Carlo simulation of 10,000 trials testing the sensitivity of all variables across a range of values resulted in the Afirma GEC being both less costly and more effective in improving care quality 92.5% of the time. A Monte Carlo simulation is the repeated sampling of random outcomes to predict likely outcomes. Additionally, the authors found no difference in cancers left untreated between the current care paradigm of sending patients with indeterminate nodules to surgery versus clinical observation following a benign Afirma GEC result. The authors concluded that if the GEC were to be universally adopted in routine clinical practice in the United States, every year 74% fewer surgeries would be performed on patients with benign nodules that cytopathology would have classified as indeterminate. 

* A co-author of this study was a consultant and member of our clinical advisory board, and owned shares of our common stock at the time of the study. This study was conducted with the support of institutional research grants by us. 15 

The cost savings estimate in the Johns Hopkins model was based on an estimated 14% rate of surgery on a benign Afirma GEC nodule, which is almost double the 7.6% and 6.3% rates subsequently reported in studies published in Thyroid (Duick, 2012) and the Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism (Alexander, 2014). Based on the rate of surgery on GEC benign nodules reported in Thyroid , this study found that each Afirma GEC test would save approximately $2,600. 

Analytical Validity 

Analytical Performance Verification of a Molecular Diagnostic for Cytology-Indeterminate Thyroid Nodules (Walsh, Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism, 2012) 

This study evaluated the Afirma GEC's ability to provide a robust, accurate and reproducible assay result on patient samples. The findings showed that the RNA content in an FNA sample that is preserved in our proprietary FNAProtect is stable for up to six days at room temperature with no changes in RNA yield or quality. Additionally, the Afirma GEC results were found to be stable over the range of shipping conditions expected in clinical practice. Analytic sensitivity studies demonstrated tolerance to variation in RNA input (5-25ng) and to the dilution of malignant FNA material down to 20%. Analytic specificity studies using malignant samples mixed with blood up to 83% and genomic DNA up to 30% demonstrated negligible assay interference with respect to false-negative results, although benign FNA samples mixed with relatively high proportions of blood demonstrated a potential for false-positive results. The Afirma GEC results were shown to be reproducible across operators, runs, reagent lots, and in inter-laboratory comparisons (standard deviation of 0.158 for scores on a &#62;6 unit scale), demonstrating the highest level of evidence for analytic validity based on the Evaluation of Genomic Applications in Practice and Prevention, or EGAPP, criteria. Analytical sensitivity, analytical specificity, robustness, and quality control of the Afirma GEC were successfully demonstrated. 

Afirma Malignancy Classifiers 

Machine Learning from Concept to Clinic: Reliable Detection of BRAF V600E DNA Mutations in Thyroid Nodules Using High-Dimensional RNA Expression Data (Diggans, Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing, 2015) 

This study, which was sponsored by us and supported with institutional research grants, demonstrated the analytical and clinical validity of the Afirma BRAF test, one of our Afirma Malignancy Classifiers, and confirms that the RNA-based classifier detects the BRAF V600E gene mutation with high diagnostic accuracy. In the study, researchers evaluated 535 FNA samples using both the Afirma RNA-based classifier and a sensitive, standard PCR DNA-based test. The Afirma BRAF RNA-based classifier accurately determined the presence or absence of the BRAF V600E gene mutation with equal performance, but with a lower non-diagnostic rate, than the DNA-based test (7.6% vs. 24.5%). 

Additionally, strong clinical validation data demonstrating the ability of the Afirma MTC test to accurately identify cases of medullary thyroid cancer, which were missed by cytopathology alone, were presented at the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists, or AACE, 23 rd Annual Scientific &#38; Clinical Congress in May 2014. 

Afirma in Practice Guidelines 

We believe the inclusion of diagnostic tests in clinical practice guidelines is essential to drive their broad adoption and reimbursement. In October 2015, the American Thyroid Association, or ATA, updated its guidelines for managing thyroid nodules and included the recommendation that the Afirma GEC may be used in lieu of diagnostic surgery to rule out cancer in patients whose thyroid nodules are indeterminate following traditional cytopathology. The Afirma GEC is the only molecular test with a high enough sensitivity and negative predictive value, demonstrated in rigorous clinical trials, to be recommended as an option for such use. Prior to this, in January 2013, the National Comprehensive Cancer Network, or NCCN, similarly modified its thyroid cancer guidelines to recommend that physicians consider molecular testing in lieu of diagnostic surgery for patients with cytopathology indeterminate thyroid nodules, provided that the molecular test predicts a risk of malignancy comparable to the risk of malignancy of a benign cytopathology result. Based on published evidence, the Afirma GEC meets these criteria. In July 2014, the NCCN further modified its guidelines to include the Afirma GEC by name. Additionally, UpToDate, a leading evidence-based clinical decision support resource for physicians, recommended the Afirma GEC in its February 2013 review. The American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists is expected to issue new guidelines for thyroid nodule management in 2016. 

Afirma Marketing and Sales 

Marketing 

We employ diverse marketing programs to inform key stakeholders of the value of our Afirma solution in order to drive adoption and reimbursement. As part of our marketing strategy, we educate physicians, healthcare professionals and managed care executives about our unique value proposition, which is supported by numerous peer-reviewed publications demonstrating the analytical and clinical validity, clinical utility and long-term durability of a benign Afirma GEC result, as well as cost-effectiveness of Afirma. We primarily achieve this through national and regional clinical meetings focused on thyroid and endocrine disease and disorders. We also sponsor physician speaker programs and continuing medical education where both academic and community physicians educate their peers on the benefits of Afirma. In addition, we provide marketing materials and tools to physician practices and regional labs, enabling them to promote to their referring physicians the fact that they offer Afirma. 

We also continue to employ a comprehensive promotional campaign targeting endocrinologists and other physicians who perform FNAs and/or manage patients with thyroid nodules. The campaign highlights the patient benefits of Afirma&#151;primarily its ability to help avoid unnecessary surgeries using information derived from a single FNA procedure. We expanded this campaign to focus on a patient audience while still highlighting the patient experience for physicians. The campaign's centerpiece, www.afirma.com, serves as the digital home for an inbound marketing campaign for patients diagnosed with a thyroid nodule that includes paid search, search engine optimization, advertising in physician offices, and outreach to patient advocacy organizations. To support the consumer campaign, a robust physician campaign includes sales aids, medical conference promotion, print and online advertising and direct mail promotion. 

Sales 

We market our Afirma solution through our dedicated specialty sales force and through mid-September 2016 through a co-promotion agreement with Genzyme Corporation, which targets the same endocrinologist customers with Thyrogen. We estimate that approximately 3,500 endocrinologists specialize in thyroid disease and perform FNAs to determine whether a thyroid nodule is malignant for cancer or benign. We also serve other specialists, including radiologists and ENT physicians, who also perform FNAs. We estimate that 60% of FNAs are collected in the physician office ambulatory setting and 40% in institutions and integrated delivery networks. In the early years of commercialization of Afirma, 

our success was attributed to our ability to gain adoption in the ambulatory setting where the physician alone can make a decision to use Afirma. As our market share and brand awareness for Afirma have grown, we now offer our Afirma Diagnostic Partner model to institutions, which involve a more complex sales process due to the multiple stakeholders within the institutions that participate in the decision to adopt Afirma, as well as to regional laboratories that serve community physicians. We believe servicing both models continues to be important to our future growth. 

We continue to expand our team of sales professionals, which as of December 31, 2015, comprised 28 associates, versus eight associates two years ago. Our team focuses on driving Afirma adoption and GEC test volume among both community-based and institutional customers, as well as the regional laboratories, with the continued engagement of the Genzyme sales force through mid-September 2016. To accommodate the transition away from Genzyme, we plan to hire approximately ten new dedicated sales associates. We aim to have the expanded sales team in place by mid-September 2016 when we assume full sales and marketing responsibility for Afirma. 

We entered two new international markets in 2015. In July, we signed an exclusive agreement with Pronto Diagnostics to promote the Afirma GEC in Israel, where Pronto distributes several leading U.S. diagnostics brands. In April, we entered into an exclusive agreement with NewBridge Pharmaceuticals, which distributes our test in the Middle East and North Africa. Prior to that, in 2014, we entered Brazil, our first international market, through a partnership with Fleury Health and Medicine, one of the largest diagnostics organizations in Brazil. All of these actions reflect our strategy of entering international markets where the adoption opportunity and reimbursement landscape are attractive and our partners have a strong local track record for commercializing novel molecular diagnostics. We do not expect meaningful revenue from international sales in the near future. 

The Pulmonology Market: Lung Cancer Diagnostic Market 

Pulmonology represents a significant opportunity for our approach, given the inherent challenges in diagnosing lung cancer and lung diseases, which are difficult to access without invasive procedures. 

Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer deaths in the United States, where more than 220,000 new diagnoses and nearly 160,000 deaths were expected in 2015. Approximately 250,000 patients with suspected lung cancer currently undergo bronchoscopy each year in the United States to assess lung nodules or lesions that are suspicious for lung cancer. Bronchoscopy, a procedure typically performed in an outpatient setting, enables the physician to visualize and collect cells from the patient's lung airways and is considered safer than other, more invasive sampling methods, such as transthoracic needle biopsy, or TTNB, or surgical lung biopsy, and is also less expensive. TTNB, for example, is associated with a 15% to 25% risk of collapsed lung; estimated costs for surgical lung biopsy exceed $20,000. 

Approximately 40% of bronchoscopies produce inconclusive results, meaning that malignancy was not found&#151;but cannot be ruled out&#151;in approximately 100,000 patients each year in the United States. This results from difficulty in accessing small and/or peripheral nodules with bronchoscopy devices. This leaves physicians with the dilemma of whether to direct these patients to surgery or other invasive procedures to obtain a diagnosis, or to actively monitor the patients with imaging techniques, with the potential that cancer may be present. 

An estimated 1.6 million pulmonary nodules are discovered incidentally from CT scanning as a part of routine medical care in the United States. Approximately 1.5 million of these patients do not have cancer, though these patients are recommended to be followed up with imaging surveillance or biopsies. Beginning in early 2015, more than eight million Americans at high-risk for lung cancer became eligible for annual screening with LDCT through new coverage requirements for private insurers as part of the Affordable Care Act, and through Medicare. This screening requirement resulted from the National Lung Screening Trial, a landmark 2011 government study, which found that annual screening using newer LDCT scans reduced lung cancer deaths by 20% among older current and former smokers. These findings had 

subsequently prompted the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force to recommend annual LDCT screening for people at high risk of lung cancer due to their age (from 55 to 80 years old) and history of smoking the equivalent of a pack a day for 30 years. While annual screening is expected to save many lives through early detection, it is anticipated to also find many lung nodules that prove to be benign, which has raised concerns that many patients will be unnecessarily subjected to invasive, risky and expensive procedures just to get a diagnosis. 

We believe the market opportunity for our Percepta test is between $350 million and $400 million in the United States, based on the current number of bronchoscopies performed to evaluate lung nodules that are suspicious for cancer. This does not include the potential for the number of bronchoscopies to increase, given that use of the Percepta classifier could make bronchoscopy a more attractive option for nonsurgical evaluation of lung nodules or lesions. Specifically, clinical validation data for the Percepta classifier showed that, when used with bronchoscopy, the combined sensitivity was 97%, compared to 75% for bronchoscopy alone. Further, the number of patients screened for lung cancer&#151;and the number of inconclusive bronchoscopies&#151;could expand significantly as screening programs are implemented. 

Percepta Bronchial Genomic Classifier 

We launched the Percepta Bronchial Genomic Classifier in April 2015 to improve lung cancer diagnosis. The gene expression test is designed to identify patients with lung nodules who are at low risk of cancer following an inconclusive bronchoscopy, helping to determine which patients may be monitored with CT surveillance and avoid unnecessary invasive procedures or surgery. 

The Percepta test comprises a 23-gene molecular classifier that measures the "field of injury," detecting molecular changes that occur in the epithelial cells lining the lung's respiratory tract in response to smoking&#151;the cause of approximately 85% to 90% of lung cancers. These changes can be detected in cytologically normal airway cells and have been shown to correlate with the presence of malignancy or disease processes from distant sites in the lung. This field of injury genomic technology plays a key role in our positioning of Percepta at the point in the clinical pathway following a bronchoscopy procedure that yields inconclusive results. By resolving ambiguity following a bronchoscopy, we believe our test results can potentially help physicians and patients avoid an invasive surgical procedure as the next step in achieving diagnostic results. The Percepta test is also designed to fit easily into physicians' existing clinical workflow. During a normal bronchoscopy procedure, in addition to collecting the standard patient samples, 

physicians use tiny brushes to collect two cytology samples from the mainstem bronchus for potential molecular testing. These samples are then placed in a collection tube and sent to our CLIA-certified laboratory in South San Francisco for Percepta testing if the initial bronchoscopy is inconclusive. Percepta test results are typically provided to physicians within ten days of order. 

We estimate that approximately 4,000 physicians perform bronchoscopies in the United States, of which approximately 80% are pulmonologists. The remaining bronchoscopies are performed by thoracic surgeons, general surgeons and other subspecialty physicians. Most bronchoscopies are performed in hospitals and the majority of those for lung cancer diagnosis take place in the hospital outpatient setting. The primary decision maker for Percepta is the pulmonologist, although other physicians involved in the diagnostic work-up for lung cancer are also involved, including the pathologist, thoracic surgeon, oncologist and radiologist. 

Development of Percepta Bronchial Genomic Classifier 

We gained Percepta and its underlying technology and intellectual property through the acquisition of Allegro Diagnostics Corp. Early work published in Nature Medicine in 2007 demonstrated how gene expression alterations in cytologically normal large-airway epithelial cells of current and former smokers could serve as a lung cancer diagnostic. Percepta was developed using a training set of 299 patients, a subset of patients enrolled in the AEGIS, or Airway Epithelium Gene Expression in the Diagnosis of Lung Cancer, trials, designed as prospective, observational, cohort studies of current and former cigarette smokers with lung nodules suspicious for cancer, who were undergoing bronchoscopy as part of their diagnostic work-up. Samples were collected at medical centers around the country using standard cytopathology brushings during bronchoscopy. The microarray-based gene expression algorithm was derived using genes associated with lung cancer and with three clinical covariates, including gender, tobacco use and smoking history, as well as patient age, and then applying logistical regression modeling techniques to lock a classifier that could accurately predict cancer status. 

Clinical Evidence for Percepta 

Clinical Validation 

The performance of the Percepta test has been demonstrated in studies enrolling over 1,000 patients from more than 30 domestic and international sites in three clinical validation studies. Results from two large, prospective, multicenter clinical validation studies (AEGIS I and II) were published in The New England Journal of Medicine in July 2015 and demonstrated the ability of the genomic test to identify patients at low risk of lung cancer, which could support a more conservative diagnostic approach. The studies involved 639 patients at 28 sites in the United States, Canada and Ireland who were undergoing bronchoscopy to evaluate their lung nodules. Among patients with an inconclusive bronchoscopy result, the Percepta test had a negative predictive value of 91%, demonstrating its ability to identify patients at low risk of cancer with a high degree of accuracy. The Percepta test and bronchoscopy had a combined sensitivity of 97%, compared to 75% for bronchoscopy alone. Additionally, clinical validation data published online in BMC Medical Genomics in May 2015 also found the test to have an NPV of greater than 90% in ruling out cancer among 123 patients with inconclusive bronchoscopy results. 

Additional Evidence Development 

In February 2016, initial clinical utility study data for the Percepta classifier were published online in CHEST , the official journal of the American College of Chest Physicians. Using data from the AEGIS trials, the researchers determined the number of patients with inconclusive bronchoscopy results who underwent invasive procedures on lung nodules and lesions that turned out to be benign. Based on the Percepta test performance, they concluded that use of the test could reduce unnecessary invasive procedures by 50% among patients with benign disease and inconclusive bronchoscopy results. This 

publication follows the presentation of findings, also derived from the AEGIS trials, which were presented in October 2015 at the CHEST 2015 Annual Meeting. Additionally, we published an analytical verification study in February 2016 in the journal BMC Cancer , establishing the quality and reproducibility of our testing processes. Additional clinical utility, as well as cost-effectiveness data, are expected to be presented at scientific meetings in 2016 and are intended to demonstrate the test's value to payers. 

Practice Guidelines 

Several existing guidelines cover the management of patients undergoing a diagnostic workup for lung cancer. In 2013, the American College of Chest Physicians, or ACCP, released comprehensive guidelines for the diagnosis and management of lung cancer, updating their 2007 guidelines. NCCN also publishes guidelines for lung cancer screening and management of non-small cell lung cancer and small cell lung cancer. Both organizations' recommendations advise on when to proceed to a biopsy. However, there is little guidance on what to do after an inconclusive bronchoscopy. Our internal research suggests that physicians vary widely in how they proceed with these patients. For example, some physicians take all of these patients to surgery, or TTNB, while others are more conservative and place them under CT surveillance. ACCP guidelines place patients with an inconclusive bronchoscopy at an intermediate risk of malignancy, thus implying that pulmonologists should treat these patients as they would any other intermediate-risk patient. Current guidelines, however, do not provide definitive guidance on what to do for this group. We believe that Percepta can change this diagnostic paradigm by offering evidence-based medicine to further guide how to manage "intermediate-risk" patients, identifying those who are at low risk for lung cancer so they can be followed with CT surveillance rather than moving on to additional invasive diagnostic procedures. 

Percepta Marketing and Sales 

We entered the market with a small, targeted pulmonary product specialist sales force, offering the Percepta Bronchial Genomic Classifier to a limited number of thought-leading academic and community-based sites as we complete the remaining studies we believe will be needed to build out our library of evidence to support reimbursement. As of March 2016, 40 institutions are offering the Percepta test to their patients who have inconclusive bronchoscopy results, and we expect to have approximately 50 sites using Percepta by mid-2016. We intend to seek reimbursement from Medicare in 2016. Upon receiving Medicare reimbursement, we expect to ramp our sales and marketing efforts as we seek to commercialize the test more broadly. We plan for this to include increasing our sales force and expanding our marketing efforts through such activities as physician speaker programs, increased participation in regional medical conferences, and patient education resources and materials to which physicians can refer and/or provide patients. Our strategy follows a similar approach as used to commercialize Afirma. 

Our Product Pipeline 

By the end of 2016, we plan to have three commercialized products in our first two targeted clinical areas: endocrinology and pulmonology. 

In addition, we are continuously evaluating opportunities to expand our genomic testing approach to other areas of substantial unmet clinical need, all with a focus on the problem of diagnostic ambiguity. We seek large, addressable markets where we can leverage our molecular cytology platform to commercialize comprehensive solutions that improve quality of life for patients by reducing unnecessary surgeries and costs. Today, minimally invasive cytology biopsies or imaging studies are routinely collected from or performed on numerous organs such as breast, cervix, endometrium and others. Similar to thyroid and lung, these often generate ambiguous results that lead to invasive procedures including surgery. We aim to continue to grow our business through internal test development or acquisition. 

Interstitial Lung Diseases 

The market for an ILD diagnostic, and particularly IPF, represents another large opportunity to resolve preoperative diagnostic ambiguity, helping to reduce the need for invasive procedures and associated costs. The physician specialist for our IPF product is also the pulmonologist, enabling us to leverage our pulmonology channel, which we have already entered with Percepta. 

IPF is one of the most common and most deadly forms of ILD, a diagnostic category comprising more than 200 diverse lung disorders characterized by progressive scarring of the lungs. An estimated 175,000 to 200,000 patients in the United States and major European countries present with suspected ILDs each year. IPF and other ILDs are often similar in symptoms and appearance, making them challenging for physicians to distinguish from each other. 

This uncertainty can result in incorrect or missed diagnoses; invasive, risky and expensive diagnostic surgeries costing over $40,000 per surgery; and/or suboptimal treatment. A recent survey of ILD patients further quantifies the significant challenges that patients face in obtaining a diagnosis. The survey, commissioned by the Pulmonary Fibrosis Foundation, with support from Veracyte, found that 42% of respondents endured a year or more between the time they first experienced symptoms and the time they obtained a diagnosis; 25% endured two years or more. Fifty-five percent (55%) of survey respondents were misdiagnosed at least once and, among those who were misdiagnosed, the misdiagnoses persisted for nearly a year (11 months). Nearly half of survey participants underwent a surgical lung biopsy as part of their diagnostic process. In addition, patients diagnosed with IPF who actually have another, less-serious ILD could be erroneously told that they have a deadly disease with a very poor prognosis and may be subjected to inadequate and/or potentially harmful treatment. The need for improved IPF diagnosis is increasingly important with the recent availability of new therapies for IPF in the United States and Europe, pirfenidone and nintedanib, that slow IPF progression, and with other drugs under development with the potential to slow or reverse IPF-related lung damage. 

IPF diagnosis is typically made by a multidisciplinary team, or MDT, comprised of a pulmonologist, radiologist and pathologist, based on a thorough clinical work-up combined with the presence of a specific pattern called usual interstitial pneumonia, or UIP, from high-resolution computed tomography, or HRCT, or from a pathology diagnosis made from a tissue sample collected from a surgical procedure. These UIP patterns are often difficult to distinguish, and even experienced radiologists and pathologists may not agree on the diagnosis. Additionally, many patients live in areas where an MDT is not available. When an IPF diagnosis is uncertain by HRCT, diagnostic surgery is considered the best approach; however, lung surgery is invasive, risky and expensive and many patients are too sick to undergo surgery. 

A genomic test that could resolve diagnostic ambiguity found in patients presenting with potential IPF or another ILD could enable many patients to be diagnosed and treated appropriately, sooner, and without the need for diagnostic surgery. Our research suggests that clinicians see the need for a genomic test that could provide greater confidence in making an IPF or other ILD diagnosis. Additionally, in data presented at the PFF Summit in November 2015, which we sponsored, pulmonologists reported that the availability of a genomic test that could accurately distinguish UIP patterns would reduce their use of surgical lung biopsy by more than half in ambiguous cases, based on imaging and clinical history. We estimate the addressable market for our IPF test to be over $500 million in the United States and Europe. 

Our IPF Test 

We are developing a molecular test to enable less-invasive, more accurate and less costly diagnosis of IPF using cytology samples obtained through bronchoscopy. Our IPF test is intended to replace the need for diagnostic surgery by providing valuable, objective information that will enable the MDT to make more accurate diagnoses earlier. We plan to launch our test in the fourth quarter of 2016. 

Our molecular classifier is designed to identify patients with pathology patterns that correspond with IPF versus those typically associated with other ILDs and is being developed using whole-genome, deep RNA sequencing. In May at the ATS 2015 International Conference and in November at the PFF Summit 2015: From Bench to Bedside, we presented data demonstrating the potential of our molecular classifier to accurately distinguish IPF from other ILDs on patient samples obtained through bronchoscopy. Additionally, in May 2015, The Lancet Respiratory Medicine published results from key original proof-of-concept research involving our development of classifiers that could distinguish UIP from other ILD pathology patterns using tissue samples obtained through surgery. 

We continue to work with more than 25 clinical sites in the United States and internationally to prospectively collect hundreds of patient samples for use in developing&#151;and later, in validating&#151;our test under our BRAVE protocols. Our intent is to obtain samples that represent all types of cases and associated clinical annotations, which we believe our classifier will be exposed to once commercialized. We have formed a "virtual" MDT of world-renowned experts in pulmonology, radiology and pathology to establish "clinical truth" against which we are developing and measuring our test's performance. We expect to present clinical validation data demonstrating the performance of our IPF test on bronchoscopy samples at a scientific meeting in 2016. 

Third-party Relationships 

Genzyme 

We began our co-promotion partnership with Genzyme, a subsidiary of Sanofi, in January 2012 by executing a co-promotion agreement. Genzyme is an established leader in endocrinology globally, developing and commercializing Thyrogen (thyrotropin alfa for injection) in the United States and over 42 countries worldwide. Thyrogen is an adjunctive diagnostic agent used in follow up of patients with well differentiated thyroid cancer, and an adjunctive treatment for ablation or destruction of thyroid remnants in patients who have had their thyroid removed for the treatment of well-differentiated thyroid cancer. We manage the relationship through a steering committee that oversees certain tactical and strategic planning activities. 

Under the 2012 agreement, Genzyme paid us a $10.0 million upfront fee and we are required to pay Genzyme a co-promotion fee that was equal to a percentage of our U.S. cash receipts from the sale of the Afirma GEC test, which fee varied over time. We record the Genzyme co-promotion fees, net of amortization related to the upfront fee, within selling and marketing expense in our statements of operations. 

In November 2014, we signed an Amended and Restated U.S. Co-Promotion Agreement, or Amended Agreement. Under the Amended Agreement, the co-promotion fees payable to Genzyme as a percentage of U.S. cash receipts from the sale of the Afirma GEC test were reduced from 32% to 15% beginning January 1, 2015. The earliest either party may terminate the Amended Agreement for convenience is July 1, 2016 and our Amended Agreement with Genzyme expires in January 2027. On March 9, 2016, we formalized the decision to conclude the Amended Agreement with Genzyme effective September 9, 2016. 

In February 2015, we entered into an Ex-U.S. Co-Promotion Agreement, or Ex-U.S. Agreement, with Genzyme for the co-exclusive promotion of the Afirma GEC test in two countries outside the United States: Brazil and Singapore. We also granted Genzyme, for a limited period of time, an exclusive right of first negotiation to enter into an agreement with us for the promotion of the Afirma GEC test in three additional countries: Canada, the Netherlands and Italy. Further, upon mutual agreement, the parties may add additional countries (other than the United States) to the Ex-U.S. Agreement. The term of the Ex-U.S. Agreement commenced January 1, 2015 and continues until December 31, 2019 with extension of the agreement possible upon agreement of the parties. Country-specific terms have been established under the Ex-U.S. Agreement for Brazil and Singapore. Pursuant to these terms, we will pay Genzyme 25% of cash receipts from the sale of the Afirma GEC test in Brazil and Singapore over a five-year period commencing January 1, 2015. Beginning in the fourth year of the agreement, if we terminate the agreement for convenience with respect to Brazil, we may be required to pay a termination fee contingent on the number of GEC billable results generated. 

TCP 

We rely on Thyroid Cytopathology Partners, P.A. to provide cytopathology professional diagnoses on thyroid FNA samples pursuant to a pathology services agreement. We originally entered into the pathology services agreement in November 2010 with Brazos Valley Pathology, P.A. D/B/A Reitpath, which assigned the contract to TCP in May 2011. In December 2012, we further amended the pathology services agreement. Pursuant to the agreement, as amended in full, TCP has the exclusive right to provide the cytopathology diagnoses on FNA samples that are referred to us as part of the Afirma solution at a fixed price per test with volume discounts. TCP can terminate the agreement upon our failure to pay any amounts due under the contract, and either we or TCP can terminate the agreement upon the insolvency of the other party, breach of the agreement by the other party, termination or breach of the service terms or the suspension or termination of the necessary regulatory licenses and approvals needed to perform the FNA diagnoses. TCP is co-located in a portion of our facilities in Austin, Texas and reimburses us for a portion of our actual out-of-pocket rental and related operating expense costs. Our agreement with TCP was effective until December 31, 2015 and thereafter automatically renews every year unless either party provides notice of intent not to renew at least twelve months prior to the end of the then-current term. 

Reimbursement 

Revenue for the Afirma Thyroid FNA Analysis comes from several sources, including commercial third-party payers, such as insurance companies and health maintenance organizations, government payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and patients. We believe that reimbursement for our lung products will be derived from similar sources but with a greater proportion coming from Medicare and potentially Medicaid due to the age of the target patient population. 

Payer Landscape 

For the Afirma GEC, reimbursement is comprised of cytopathology, the Afirma GEC and/or the Malignancy Classifiers when these tests are performed as part of our comprehensive solution. To date, a high percentage of FNA samples received are accessioned for cytopathology, for which we bill both the technical and professional component using established CPT codes. Under our Afirma Diagnostic Partner model, which is used predominantly by our institutional and regional laboratory customers, reimbursement is sought for the Afirma GEC and/or the Malignancy Classifiers. We bill payers directly for the Afirma GEC and the Malignancy Classifiers using either a unique code or a miscellaneous code. 

Effective January 2012, Palmetto GBA, the regional Medicare administrative contractor, or MAC, that handled claims processing for Medicare services with jurisdiction at that time, issued coverage and payment determinations for the Afirma GEC. Their review determined that the Afirma GEC met their criteria for analytical and clinical validity, and clinical utility as a reasonable and necessary Medicare benefit. This coverage decision provided approximately 50 million Medicare participants with access to the Afirma GEC. In mid-September 2013, Noridian Administrative Services succeeded Palmetto as the MAC for our region and continued to reimburse under our unique Z code originally established by Palmetto. On a five-year rotational basis, Medicare requests bids for its regional MAC services. Any future changes in the MAC processing or coding for Medicare claims for the Afirma GEC or for future products could result in a change in the coverage or reimbursement rates for such products, or the loss of coverage. On March 1, 2015, a separate CPT code, or Current Procedural Terminology code, for the Afirma GEC was issued, which we believe will continue to facilitate our progress with payer coverage and contracts, and reimbursement. The new code became effective January 1, 2016. 

Collectively, as of March 2016, we have nearly 180 million lives under positive medical coverage policies for the Afirma GEC including from Medicare (January 2012) and leading commercial insurers, including UnitedHealthcare (April 2013), Aetna (June 2013), Humana (July 2013), Cigna (December 2013) and several leading Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield plans, including Health Care Services 

Corporation (December 2015) and Highmark, Horizon Blue Cross, and Blue Shield of California (all 2014). We have nearly 130 million lives under contract for the Afirma GEC, which establishes us as an in-network provider and helps facilitate adoption. However, payers may suspend or discontinue reimbursement at any time, may require or increase co-payments from patients, or may reduce the reimbursement rates paid to us. Any such actions could have a negative effect on our revenue. 

We plan to seek Medicare reimbursement for the Percepta Bronchial Genomic Classifier from the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services, or CMS, in 2016, using a unique Z code, which we believe would be priced by our local CMS contractor, similar to our early approach with the Afirma GEC. 

Dependence on Certain Third-party Payers 

We rely on a small number of third-party payers for a significant portion of our revenue. Reimbursement on behalf of patients covered by Medicare accounted for 26%, 26%, and 32% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. UnitedHealthcare accounted for 14%, 18%, and 18% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. Aetna accounted for 9%, 11%, and 9% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. The loss of one or more of these payers would have a negative effect on our business and our revenue. 

Reimbursement Strategy 

We employ a multi-pronged strategy designed to achieve broad coverage and reimbursement for our tests: 

&#149; Meet the Evidence Standards Necessary to Be Consistent with Leading Clinical Guidelines. We believe inclusion in leading clinical practice guidelines plays a critical role in payers' coverage decisions. For example, the data published on the Afirma GEC to date is consistent with the recommendations of the widely-recognized American Thyroid Association and National Comprehensive Cancer Network clinical practice guidelines. We intend to pursue a similar strategy with the Percepta test and our future tests. &#149; Execute an Internal Managed Care and Claims Adjudication Function as Part of Our Core Business Operations. We believe that obtaining adequate and widespread reimbursement is a critical factor in our long-term success. We employ a team of in-house claims processing and reimbursement specialists who work with payers, physician practices and patients to obtain maximum reimbursement. In parallel, a managed care team collaborates with our reimbursement specialists to ensure our payer outreach strategy reacts to and anticipates the changing needs of our customer base. Our customer service team is an integral part of our reimbursement strategy, working with physician practices and patients to navigate the claims process. &#149; Cultivate a Network of Key Opinion Leaders. Key opinion leaders are able to influence clinical practice by publishing research and determining whether new tests should be integrated into practice guidelines. We collaborate with key opinion leaders early in the development process to ensure our clinical studies are designed and executed in a way that clearly demonstrates the benefits of our tests to physicians and payers. Ongoing studies to support real world experience with our tests are a key component of our efforts to collaborate with physician influencers. &#149; Compile a Growing Library of Peer-reviewed Studies that Demonstrate the Test Is Effective. To date, several peer-reviewed articles and review papers have been published and have helped support our efforts aimed at widespread adoption and reimbursement of Afirma. In each disease area we pursue, we intend to conduct studies in order to develop similar supporting literature as we are currently doing with the Percepta test. 25 

&#149; Established Payer Relationships and In-network Contracts. We believe that positive engagement with payers for Afirma, which has led to coverage decisions, will facilitate our efforts as we approach these same payers for coverage of Percepta and subsequent tests. Additionally, we believe that once we achieve in-network provider status with payers for Afirma, the process for converting Percepta from a covered test to an in-network offering will be streamlined. Research and Development 

Our technology platform offers a number of key attributes, which are applicable to Afirma, Percepta and products we may develop in the future: 

&#149; Core Expertise in Broad-based Genomic Analysis. Our team of bioinformatics and computational scientists possess extensive knowledge of both existing computational methods as well as the capacity to develop proprietary methods as needed for algorithm design. We demonstrated our ability to utilize large amounts of genomic data with machine learning algorithms in the development of the GEC. &#149; Proprietary Capabilities in Analyzing Small, Heterogeneous Cytology Samples. We have developed proprietary technology, intellectual property and know-how for optimized methods for extraction and analysis of nanogram quantities of RNA from small biopsy samples. Although others can extract RNA from these small biopsies, we believe their process has not been optimized and scaled for high-throughput clinical testing and large-scale clinical development studies involving amplification and hybridization to high-density microarrays. Our process uses commercially available reagents and instruments with our own proprietary process and protocols, which results in RNA extraction from the range of FNAs used in our clinical development studies and our commercial laboratory test. &#149; Precision and Reproducibility. We have in place standard operating procedures governing reagents, materials, instruments and controls and extensive experience from numerous verification studies performed for both the Afirma GEC and the Percepta test. We are applying the same high-quality control methods that were developed for our reagents and processes, along with our proprietary software for automation, sample tracking, data quality control and statistical analysis, to our development process in interstitial lung disease and expect to do so for other diseases in the future. &#149; Technology Agnostic Discovery Platform. We are not reliant on specific formats and are able to take advantage of a multitude of genomic technologies in developing future tests. When we developed the Afirma GEC in 2008, microarray technologies were a cost-effective discovery technology compared to other approaches that were nascent at the time. More recently, the rapid cost reductions achieved in next generation sequencing platforms has allowed us to pursue our whole genome approach to biomarker discovery using a range of features obtained through both DNA and RNA sequencing. Laboratory Operations 

Our laboratory operations are headquartered at our CLIA-certified laboratory in South San Francisco, California, where we perform all molecular testing. For our Afirma solution, customers ship samples for cytopathology assessment to our CLIA-registered laboratory in Austin, Texas. Once received, samples are processed through our automated accessioning system, prepared for cytopathology review, and delivered to TCP for cytopathology diagnosis. If cytopathology results are indeterminate, the sample is transferred to South San Francisco where we perform Afirma GEC testing. Institutions and other clients using our Afirma Diagnostic Partner model ship the samples for the Afirma GEC and/or the Afirma Malignancy Classifiers directly to our South San Francisco laboratory. Percepta samples are also shipped directly to South San Francisco. Our South San Francisco facility is responsible for quality assurance 

oversight, licensing and regulatory compliance and maintenance for both of our laboratories to ensure data integrity and consistent, validated processes. 

We have recently moved into expanded state-of-the-art laboratory space in South San Francisco, California and believe we have sufficient laboratory capacity to accommodate volume growth for our Afirma, Percepta and IPF tests. 

Quality Assurance 

Our quality assurance function oversees the quality of our laboratories as well as the quality systems used in research and development, client services, billing operations and sales and marketing. We have established a quality system implementation and maintenance, document control, supplier qualification, corrective or preventive actions oversight, and employee training processes that we believe achieves excellence in operations across the entire business. We continuously monitor and improve our quality over time and believe our implementation of these processes has supported our achievement of product performance, customer satisfaction and retention and a philosophy of continuous improvement. 

Competition 

We believe the principal competitive factors in the markets we target with our products include: 

&#149; the ability of the test to answer the appropriate clinical question at the right point in the clinical pathway; &#149; quality and strength of clinical validation and utility data; &#149; confidence in diagnostic results backed by analytical verification data; &#149; the extent of reimbursement and in-network payer contracts; &#149; inclusion in practice guidelines; &#149; cost-effectiveness; and &#149; ease of use. We believe we compete favorably on the factors described above with our Afirma solution and are positioning ourselves to compete effectively on these factors with our Percepta Bronchial Genomic Classifier. 

Our principal competition for Afirma comes from traditional methods used by physicians to diagnose thyroid cancer. Physicians in the United States have historically recommended that patients with indeterminate diagnoses from cytopathology results be considered for surgery to remove all or part of the thyroid to rule out cancer. This practice has been the standard of care in the United States, as well as in many international markets, for many years, and we are educating physicians about the benefits of our test in order to change clinical practice. 

We also face competition from companies and academic institutions that use next generation sequencing technology or other methods to measure mutational markers such as BRAF and KRAS, along with numerous other mutations. The organizations include Interpace Diagnostics Group, Inc., Rosetta Genomics Ltd., Integrated Diagnostics, Inc. and others who are developing new products or technologies that may compete with our tests. In the future, we may also face competition from companies developing new products or technologies that are able to compete with Afirma's high negative predictive value to rule out cancer. 

With the Percepta test, we believe our primary competition will similarly come from traditional methods used by physicians to diagnose lung cancer. We also anticipate facing potential competition from companies offering or developing approaches for assessing malignancy risk in patients with lung nodules 

using alternative samples, such as blood, urine or sputum. However, such "liquid biopsies" are often used earlier in the diagnostic paradigm&#151;for instance, to screen for cancer&#151;or to gauge risk of recurrence or response to treatment. 

In general, we also face competition from commercial laboratories, such as Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, Quest Diagnostics Incorporated and Sonic Healthcare USA with strong infrastructure to support the commercialization of diagnostic services. We face potential competition from companies such as Illumina, Inc. and Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., both of which have entered the clinical diagnostics market. Other potential competitors include companies that develop diagnostic products, such as Roche Diagnostics, a division of Roche Holding Ltd, Siemens AG and Qiagen N.V. 

Competitors may develop their own versions of our solution in countries where we do not have patents or where our intellectual property rights are not recognized and compete with us in those countries, including encouraging the use of their solution by physicians in other countries. 

Many of our potential competitors have widespread brand recognition and substantially greater financial, technical and research and development resources and selling and marketing capabilities than we do. Others may develop products with prices lower than ours that could be viewed by physicians and payers as functionally equivalent to our solution, or offer solutions at prices designed to promote market penetration, which could force us to lower the list price of our solutions and affect our ability to achieve profitability. If we are unable to change clinical practice in a meaningful way or compete successfully against current and future competitors, we may be unable to increase market acceptance and sales of our products, which could prevent us from increasing our revenue or achieving profitability and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As we add new tests and services, we will face many of these same competitive risks for these new tests. 

Intellectual Property 

In order to remain competitive, we must develop and maintain protection of the proprietary aspects of our technologies. To that end, we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights and trademarks, as well as contracts, such as confidentiality, invention assignment and licensing agreements. We also rely upon trade secret laws to protect unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation. In addition, we have what we consider to be reasonable security measures in place to maintain confidentiality. Our intellectual property strategy is intended to develop and maintain our competitive position. 

We have eight issued patents which expire between 2029 and 2032 related to methods used in the Afirma diagnostic platform, in addition to eight pending U.S. utility patent applications and six U.S. provisional applications. Some of these U.S. utility patent applications have pending foreign counterparts. We also exclusively licensed intellectual property, including rights to two issued patents that will expire between 2030 and 2032, and three pending U.S. utility patent applications in the thyroid space that would expire between 2030 and 2033 once issued, related to methods that are used in the Afirma diagnostic test, some of which have foreign counterparts. 

In the lung diagnostic space, we exclusively license intellectual property rights to seven pending patent applications and one issued patent in the United States and abroad. Patents issuing from the licensed portfolio will expire between 2024 and 2028. In addition, we own a PCT application and a pending U.S. application related to our Percepta test. We also own two applications related to other lung diseases, and a PCT application, a pending U.S. application, and two ex-U.S. applications related to our interstitial lung disease test under development. Any patents granted from the current lung cancer patent applications will expire no earlier than 2035 and those from the interstitial lung disease patent applications will expire no earlier than from 2034 to 2035. 

We intend to file additional patent applications in the United States and abroad to strengthen our intellectual property rights; however, our patent applications (including the patent applications listed 

above) may not result in issued patents in a timely fashion or at all, and we cannot assure investors that any patents that have issued or might issue will protect our technology. We may receive notices of claims of potential infringement from third parties in the future. 

We hold registered trademarks in the United States for "Veracyte," "Afirma," and "Percepta" and for the Veracyte and Afirma logos. We also hold registered trademarks in various jurisdictions outside of the United States. 

We require all employees and technical consultants working for us to execute confidentiality agreements, which provide that all confidential information received by them during the course of the employment, consulting or business relationship be kept confidential, except in specified circumstances. Our agreements with our research employees provide that all inventions, discoveries and other types of intellectual property, whether or not patentable or copyrightable, conceived by the individual while he or she is employed by us are assigned to us. We cannot provide any assurance, however, that employees and consultants will abide by the confidentiality or assignment terms of these agreements. Despite measures taken to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties might copy aspects of our technology or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. 

Regulation 

Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or CLIA 

As a clinical reference laboratory, we are required to hold certain federal, state and local licenses, certifications and permits to conduct our business. Under CLIA, we are required to hold a certificate applicable to the type of laboratory examinations we perform and to comply with standards covering personnel, facilities administration, quality systems and proficiency testing. 

We have current certificates under CLIA to perform testing at each of our locations. To renew our CLIA certificates, we are subject to survey and inspection every two years to assess compliance with program standards. The regulatory and compliance standards applicable to the testing we perform may change over time, and any such changes could have a material effect on our business. 

If one of our clinical reference laboratories is out of compliance with CLIA requirements, we may be subject to sanctions such as suspension, limitation or revocation of our CLIA certificate, as well as directed plan of correction, state on-site monitoring, civil money penalties, civil injunctive suit or criminal penalties. We must maintain CLIA compliance and certification to be eligible to bill for diagnostic services provided to Medicare beneficiaries. If we were to be found out of compliance with CLIA requirements and subjected to sanction, our business could be harmed. 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration: Diagnostic Kits 

Diagnostic kits, including collection systems, which are sold and distributed through interstate commerce are regulated as medical devices by the FDA. Devices subject to FDA regulation must undergo premarket review prior to commercialization unless the device is of a type exempted from such review. In addition, manufacturers of medical devices must comply with various regulatory requirements under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDC Act, and implementing regulations promulgated under that Act. Entities that fail to comply with FDA requirements may be subject to issuance of notice of observations, untitled or warning letters, and can be liable for criminal or civil penalties, such as recalls, import detentions, seizures, or injunctions, including orders to cease manufacturing. 

The FDC Act classifies medical devices into one of three categories based on the risks associated with the device and the level of control necessary to provide reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness. Class I devices are deemed to be low risk and are subject to the fewest regulatory controls. Many Class I devices are exempt from FDA premarket review requirements. For Class II devices, the FDA generally requires clearance through the premarket notification, or 510(k) clearance process. Class III devices are 

generally the highest risk devices and are subject to the highest level of regulatory control to provide reasonable assurance of the device's safety and effectiveness. Class III devices must typically be approved by the FDA before they are marketed. 

Generally, establishments that manufacture or distribute devices, including manufacturers, repackagers and relabelers, specification developers, and initial importers, are required to register their establishments with the FDA and provide the FDA a list of the devices that they handle at their facilities. 

After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply. These include: all of the relevant elements of the Quality System Regulation, or QSR, labeling regulations, restrictions on promotion and advertising, the Medical Device Reporting regulation (which requires that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur), and the Reports of Corrections and Removals regulation (which requires manufacturers to report certain recalls and field actions to the FDA). 

The FDA has issued a regulation outlining specific requirements for "specimen transport and storage containers." "Specimen transport and storage containers" are medical devices "intended to contain biological specimens, body waste, or body exudate during storage and transport" so that the specimen can be used effectively for diagnostic examination. A specimen transport and storage container is a Class I device. It is subject to MDR requirements, the reporting of corrections and removals, registration and listing. It is exempt from premarket review and from QSR requirements, except for recordkeeping and complaint handling requirements, so long as no sterility claims are made. Our facility is registered with the FDA as a specification developer, which means that we can sell the collection system under our own name and outline the specifications used to make the collection system, but a third party assembles the collection system for us. The containers we provide for collection and transport of Afirma GEC and Percepta samples from a physician to our clinical reference laboratory are listed as Class I devices with the FDA. We also plan to list our sample collection containers for use with IPF with the FDA as Class I devices. If the FDA were to determine that our sample collection containers are not Class I devices, we would be required to file 510(k) applications and obtain FDA clearance to use the containers, which could be time consuming and expensive. 

The FDA enforces the requirements described above by various means, including inspection and market surveillance. If the FDA finds a violation, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from an Untitled Letter or Warning Letter to more severe sanctions such as: 

&#149; fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; &#149; recall or seizure of products; &#149; operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; and &#149; criminal prosecution. Federal Oversight of Laboratory Developed Tests and Research Use Only Products 

Clinical laboratory tests like the Afirma GEC are regulated under CLIA, as administered by CMS, as well as by applicable state laws. Clinical laboratory tests that are developed and validated by a laboratory for its own use, which are referred to as laboratory developed tests, or LDTs, currently are generally not subject to FDA regulation, although reagents, instruments, software or components provided by third parties and used to perform LDTs may be subject to regulation. We believe that the Afirma GEC and the Percepta test are LDTs. FDA currently exercises its enforcement discretion for LDTs. In October 2014, the FDA published draft guidance documents describing the framework by which they might regulate LDTs. The framework is similar to the guidance they issued previously. The comment period ended in February 2015. There is no timeframe in which the FDA must issue final guidance documents. 

Some of the materials we use for Afirma and Percepta and that we may use for future products are for research use only, or RUO. An RUO product is not intended for human clinical use and must be labeled "For Research Use Only. Not for use in diagnostic procedures." RUOs are a separate regulatory category and are not considered medical devices. They are therefore not subject to the FDA regulatory requirements discussed above. They cannot make any claims related to safety, effectiveness, or diagnostic utility or be intended for human clinical diagnostic or prognostic use. In November 2013, the FDA issued guidance regarding "Commercially Distributed In-Vitro Diagnostic Products Labeled for Research Use Only or Investigational Use Only." 

We cannot predict the ultimate form or impact of any such RUO, LDT or other guidance and the potential effect on our solutions or materials used to perform our diagnostic services. While we qualify all materials used in our diagnostic services according to CLIA regulations, we cannot be certain that the FDA might not promulgate rules or issue guidance documents that could affect our ability to purchase materials necessary for the performance of our diagnostic services. Should any of the reagents obtained by us from vendors and used in conducting our diagnostic services be affected by future regulatory actions, our business could be adversely affected by those actions, including increasing the cost of service or delaying, limiting or prohibiting the purchase of reagents necessary to perform the service. 

We cannot provide any assurance that FDA regulation, including premarket review, will not be required in the future for our diagnostic services, whether through additional guidance or regulations issued by the FDA, new enforcement policies adopted by the FDA or new legislation enacted by Congress. Legislative proposals addressing oversight of LDTs were introduced in recent years, and we expect that new legislative proposals will be introduced from time to time. It is possible that legislation could be enacted into law or regulations or guidance could be issued by the FDA which may result in new or increased regulatory requirements for us to continue to offer our diagnostic services or to develop and introduce new services. 

If premarket review, including approval, is required, our business could be negatively affected until such review is completed and clearance to market or approval is obtained, and the FDA could require that we stop selling our diagnostic services pending premarket clearance or approval. If our diagnostic services are allowed to remain on the market but there is uncertainty about the legal status of our services, if we are required by the FDA to label them investigational, or if labeling claims the FDA allows us to make are limited, order levels may decline and reimbursement may be adversely affected. The regulatory process may involve, among other things, successfully completing additional clinical studies and submitting a premarket notification or filing a PMA application with the FDA. If premarket review is required by the FDA, there can be no assurance that our diagnostic services will be cleared or approved on a timely basis, if at all, nor can there any be assurance that labeling claims will be consistent with our current claims or adequate to support continued adoption of and reimbursement for our solution. Ongoing compliance with FDA regulations would increase the cost of conducting our business, and subject us to heightened requirements of the FDA and penalties for failure to comply with these requirements. We may also decide voluntarily to pursue FDA premarket review of our diagnostic services if we determine that doing so would be appropriate. 

Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act 

Under the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, has issued regulations to protect the privacy and security of protected health information used or disclosed by health care providers, such as us. HIPAA also regulates standardization of data content, codes and formats used in health care transactions and standardization of identifiers for health plans and providers. Penalties for violations of HIPAA regulations include civil and criminal penalties. 

We have developed and implemented policies and procedures designed to comply with these regulations. The requirements under these regulations may change periodically and could have an effect on our business operations if compliance becomes substantially more costly than under current requirements. 

In addition to federal privacy regulations, there are a number of state laws governing confidentiality of health information that are applicable to our business. The U.S. Department of Commerce, the European Commission and the Swiss Federal Data Protection and Information Commissioner have agreed on a set of data protection principles and frequently asked questions, referred to as the Safe Harbor Principles, to enable U.S. companies to satisfy the requirement under European Union and Swiss law that adequate protection is given to personal information transferred from the European Union or Switzerland to the United States. The European Commission and Switzerland have also recognized the Safe Harbor Principles as providing adequate data protection. 

New laws governing privacy may be adopted in the future as well. We have taken steps to comply with health information privacy requirements to which we are aware that we are subject. However, we can provide no assurance that we are or will remain in compliance with diverse privacy requirements in all of the jurisdictions in which we do business. Failure to comply with privacy requirements could result in civil or criminal penalties, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. 

Federal and State Physician Self-referral Prohibitions 

We are subject to the federal physician self-referral prohibitions, commonly known as the Stark Law, and to similar restrictions under California's Physician Ownership and Referral Act, or PORA. Together these restrictions generally prohibit us from billing a patient or any governmental or private payer for any diagnostic services when the physician ordering the service, or any member of such physician's immediate family, has an investment interest in or compensation arrangement with us, unless the arrangement meets an exception to the prohibition. 

Both the Stark Law and PORA contain an exception for compensation paid to a physician for personal services rendered by the physician. We have compensation arrangements with a number of physicians for personal services, such as speaking engagements and consulting activities. We have structured these arrangements with terms intended to comply with the requirements of the personal services exception to Stark and PORA. 

However, we cannot be certain that regulators would find these arrangements to be in compliance with Stark, PORA or similar state laws. We would be required to refund any payments we receive pursuant to a referral prohibited by these laws to the patient, the payer or the Medicare program, as applicable. 

Sanctions for a violation of the Stark Law include the following: 

&#149; denial of payment for the services provided in violation of the prohibition; &#149; refunds of amounts collected by an entity in violation of the Stark Law; &#149; a civil penalty of up to $15,000 for each service arising out of the prohibited referral; &#149; possible exclusion from federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid; and &#149; a civil penalty of up to $100,000 against parties that enter into a scheme to circumvent the Stark Law's prohibition. These prohibitions apply regardless of the reasons for the financial relationship and the referral. No finding of intent to violate the Stark Law is required for a violation. In addition, knowing violations of the Stark Law may also serve as the basis for liability under the Federal False Claims Act. 

Further, a violation of PORA is a misdemeanor and could result in civil penalties and criminal fines. Finally, other states have self-referral restrictions with which we have to comply that differ from those imposed by federal and California law. While we have attempted to comply with the Stark Law, PORA and similar laws of other states, it is possible that some of our financial arrangements with physicians could be subject to regulatory scrutiny at some point in the future, and we cannot provide assurance that we will be found to be in compliance with these laws following any such regulatory review. 

Federal and State Anti-kickback Laws 

The Federal health care program Anti-kickback Law makes it a felony for a person or entity, including a laboratory, to knowingly and willfully offer, pay, solicit or receive remuneration, directly or indirectly, in order to induce business that is reimbursable under any federal health care program. A violation of the Anti-kickback Law may result in imprisonment for up to five years and fines of up to $250,000 in the case of individuals and $500,000 in the case of organizations. Convictions under the Anti-kickback Law result in mandatory exclusion from federal health care programs for a minimum of five years. In addition, HHS has the authority to impose civil assessments and fines and to exclude health care providers and others engaged in prohibited activities from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal health care programs. Actions which violate the Anti-kickback Law also incur liability under the Federal False Claims Act, which prohibits knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment to the U.S. Government. 

Although the Anti-kickback Law applies only to federal health care programs, a number of states, including California, have passed statutes substantially similar to the Anti-kickback Law pursuant to which similar types of prohibitions are made applicable to all other health plans and third- party payers. Both California's fee-splitting statute, Business and Professions Code Section 650, and its Medi-Cal anti-kickback statute, Welfare and Institutions Code Section 14107.2, have been interpreted by the California Attorney General and California courts in substantially the same way as HHS and the courts have interpreted the Anti-kickback Law. A violation of Section 650 is punishable by imprisonment and fines of up to $50,000. A violation of Section 14107.2 is punishable by imprisonment and fines of up to $10,000. 

Federal and state law enforcement authorities scrutinize arrangements between health care providers and potential referral sources to ensure that the arrangements are not designed as a mechanism to induce patient care referrals or induce the purchase or prescribing of particular products or services. The law enforcement authorities, the courts and Congress have also demonstrated a willingness to look behind the formalities of a transaction to determine the underlying purpose of payments between health care providers and actual or potential referral sources. Generally, courts have taken a broad interpretation of the scope of the Anti-kickback Law, holding that the statute may be violated if merely one purpose of a payment arrangement is to induce referrals or purchases. 

In addition to statutory exceptions to the Anti-kickback Law, regulations provide for a number of safe harbors. If an arrangement meets the provisions of a safe harbor, it is deemed not to violate the Anti-kickback Law. An arrangement must fully comply with each element of an applicable safe harbor in order to qualify for protection. There are no regulatory safe harbors to California's Section 650. 

Among the safe harbors that may be relevant to us is the discount safe harbor. The discount safe harbor potentially applies to discounts provided by providers and suppliers, including laboratories, to physicians or institutions. If the terms of the discount safe harbor are met, the discounts will not be considered prohibited remuneration under the Anti-kickback Law. California does not have a discount safe harbor. However, as noted above, Section 650 has generally been interpreted consistent with the Anti-kickback Law. 

The personal services safe harbor to the Anti-kickback Law provides that remuneration paid to a referral source for personal services will not violate the Anti-kickback Law provided all of the elements of that safe harbor are met. One element is that if the agreement is intended to provide for the services of the physician on a periodic, sporadic or part-time basis, rather than on a full-time basis for the term of the agreement, the agreement specifies exactly the schedule of such intervals, their precise length, and the exact charge for such intervals. Our personal services arrangements with some physicians may not meet the specific requirement of this safe harbor that the agreement specify exactly the schedule of the intervals of time to be spent on the services because the nature of the services, such as speaking engagements, does not lend itself to exact scheduling and therefore meeting this element of the personal services safe harbor is impractical. Failure to meet the terms of the safe harbor does not render an arrangement illegal. Rather, the government may evaluate such arrangements on a case-by-case basis, taking into account all facts and circumstances. 

While we believe that we are in compliance with the Anti-kickback Law and Section 650, there can be no assurance that our relationships with physicians, academic institutions and other customers will not be subject to investigation or challenge under such laws. If imposed for any reason, sanctions under the Anti-kickback Law and Section 650 could have a negative effect on our business. 

Other Federal and State Fraud and Abuse Laws 

In addition to the requirements discussed above, several other health care fraud and abuse laws could have an effect on our business. For example, provisions of the Social Security Act permit Medicare and Medicaid to exclude an entity that charges the federal health care programs substantially in excess of its usual charges for its services. The terms "usual charge" and "substantially in excess" are ambiguous and subject to varying interpretations. 

Further, the Federal False Claims Act prohibits a person from knowingly submitting a claim, making a false record or statement in order to secure payment or retaining an overpayment by the federal government. In addition to actions initiated by the government itself, the statute authorizes actions to be brought on behalf of the federal government by a private party having knowledge of the alleged fraud. Because the complaint is initially filed under seal, the action may be pending for some time before the defendant is even aware of the action. If the government is ultimately successful in obtaining redress in the matter or if the plaintiff succeeds in obtaining redress without the government's involvement, then the plaintiff will receive a percentage of the recovery. Finally, the Social Security Act includes its own provisions that prohibit the filing of false claims or submitting false statements in order to obtain payment. Violation of these provisions may result in fines, imprisonment or both, and possible exclusion from Medicare or Medicaid programs. California has an analogous state false claims act applicable to all payers, as do many other states; however, we may not be aware of all such rules and statutes and cannot provide assurance that we will be in compliance with all such laws and regulations. 

International 

Many countries in which we may offer Afirma in the future have anti-kickback regulations prohibiting providers from offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, in order to induce business that is reimbursable under any national health care program. In situations involving physicians employed by state-funded institutions or national health care agencies, violation of the local anti-kickback law may also constitute a violation of the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA. 

The FCPA prohibits any U.S. individual, business entity or employee of a U.S. business entity to offer or provide, directly or through a third party, including any potential distributors we may rely on in certain markets, anything of value to a foreign government official with corrupt intent to influence an award or continuation of business or to gain an unfair advantage, whether or not such conduct violate local laws. In 

addition, it is illegal for a company that reports to the SEC to have false or inaccurate books or records or to fail to maintain a system of internal accounting controls. We will also be required to maintain accurate information and control over sales and distributors' activities that may fall within the purview of the FCPA, its books and records provisions and its anti-bribery provisions. 

The standard of intent and knowledge in the Anti-Bribery cases is minimal&#151;intent and knowledge are usually inferred from that fact that bribery took place. The accounting provisions do not require intent. Violations of the FCPA's anti-bribery provisions for corporations and other business entities are subject to a fine of up to $2 million and officers, directors, stockholders, employees, and agents are subject to a fine of up to $100,000 and imprisonment for up to five years. Other countries, including the United Kingdom and other OECD Anti-Bribery Convention members, have similar anti-corruption regulations, such as the United Kingdom Bribery Act. 

When marketing our tests outside of the United States, we may be subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical testing, prohibitions on the import of tissue necessary for us to perform our tests or restrictions on the export of tissue imposed by countries outside of the United States or the import of tissue into the United States, and marketing approval. These requirements vary by jurisdiction, differ from those in the United States and may in some cases require us to perform additional pre-clinical or clinical testing. In many countries outside of the United States, coverage, pricing and reimbursement approvals are also required. 

California Laboratory Licensing 

In addition to federal certification requirements of laboratories under CLIA, licensure is required and maintained for our South San Francisco clinical reference laboratory under California law. Such laws establish standards for the day-to-day operation of a clinical reference laboratory, including the training and skills required of personnel and quality control. In addition, California laws mandate proficiency testing, which involves testing of specimens that have been specifically prepared for the laboratory. 

If our clinical reference laboratory is out of compliance with California standards, the California Department of Health Services, or DHS, may suspend, restrict or revoke our license to operate our clinical reference laboratory, assess substantial civil money penalties, or impose specific corrective action plans. Any such actions could materially affect our business. We maintain a current license in good standing with DHS. However, we cannot provide assurance that DHS will at all times in the future find us to be in compliance with all such laws. 

New York Laboratory Licensing 

Our clinical reference laboratories are required to be licensed by New York, under New York laws and regulations before we receive specimens from New York State. The license establishes standards for: 

&#149; quality management systems; &#149; qualifications, responsibilities, and training; &#149; facility design and resource management; &#149; pre-analytic, analytic (including validation and quality control), and post-analytic systems; and &#149; quality assessments and improvements. New York law also mandates proficiency testing for laboratories licensed under New York state law, regardless of whether such laboratories are located in New York. If a laboratory is out of compliance with New York statutory or regulatory standards, the New York State Department of Health, or NYDOH, may suspend, limit, revoke or annul the laboratory's New York license, censure the holder of the license or assess civil money penalties. Statutory or regulatory noncompliance may result in a laboratory's operator 

being found guilty of a misdemeanor under New York law. NYDOH also must approve the LDT before the test is offered in New York; approval has been received for Afirma and conditional approval has been received for Percepta. Should we be found out of compliance with New York laboratory standards of practice, we could be subject to such sanctions, which could harm our business. We maintain a current license in good standing with NYDOH for our South San Francisco and Austin laboratories. We cannot provide assurance that the NYDOH will at all times find us to be in compliance with applicable laws. 

Other States' Laboratory Licensing 

In addition to New York and California, other states including Florida, Maryland, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island, require licensing of out-of-state laboratories under certain circumstances. We have obtained licenses from states where we believe we are required to be licensed, and believe we are in compliance with applicable licensing laws. 

From time to time, we may become aware of other states that require out-of-state laboratories to obtain licensure in order to accept specimens from the state, and it is possible that other states do have such requirements or will have such requirements in the future. If we identify any other state with such requirements or if we are contacted by any other state advising us of such requirements, we intend to comply with such requirements. 

Corporate Practice of Medicine 

Numerous states, including California and Texas, have enacted laws prohibiting corporations such as us from practicing medicine and employing or engaging physicians to practice medicine. These laws are designed to prevent interference in the medical decision-making process by anyone who is not a licensed physician. This prohibition is generally referred to as the prohibition against the corporate practice of medicine. Violation of this prohibition may result in civil or criminal fines, as well as sanctions imposed against us or the professional through licensing proceedings. The pathologists who review and classify thyroid FNA cytopathology results for Afirma are employed by Thyroid Cytopathology Partners, a Texas professional association, pursuant to services agreement between us and TCP. Pursuant to the agreement, we pay TCP a monthly fee on a per FNA basis, and TCP manages and supervises the pathologists who perform the cytopathology services as a component of Afirma. TCP is managed by Pathology Resources Consultants, or PRC, which provides management and other services to medical practitioners. We have entered into a services agreement with PRC in connection with our arrangement with TCP, pursuant to which we engaged PRC exclusively to manage the pathology services being provided by TCP. Our agreement with PRC was effective until December 31, 2015 and thereafter automatically renews every year unless either party provides notice of intent not to renew at least twelve months prior to the end of the then-current term. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, we had 192 employees, of which 38 work in laboratory operations, 27 in research and development and clinical development, 49 in selling and marketing, 78 in general and administrative, including 46 in billing and client services, 12 in information technology and 11 in finance. None of our employees are the subject of collective bargaining arrangements, and our management considers its relationships with employees to be good. 

Environmental Matters 

Our operations require the use of hazardous materials (including biological materials) which subject us to a variety of federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. Some of these regulations provide for strict liability, holding a party potentially liable without regard to fault or negligence. We could be held liable for damages and fines as a result of our, or others', business operations 

should contamination of the environment or individual exposure to hazardous substances occur. We cannot predict how changes in laws or new regulations will affect our business, operations or the cost of compliance. 

Raw Materials and Suppliers 

We procure reagents, equipment, chips and other materials we use to perform our tests from sole suppliers. We also purchase components used in our collection kits from sole-source suppliers. Some of these items are unique to these suppliers and vendors. In addition, we utilize a sole source to assemble and distribute our sample collection kits. While we have developed alternate sourcing strategies for these materials and vendors, we cannot be certain whether these strategies will be effective or whether alternative sources will be available when we need them. If these suppliers can no longer provide us with the materials we need to perform the tests and for our collection kits, if the materials do not meet our quality specifications, if we cannot obtain acceptable substitute materials, or if we elect to change suppliers, an interruption in test processing could occur and we may not be able to deliver patient reports and may incur higher one-time switching costs. Any such interruption may significantly affect our future revenue, cause us to incur higher costs, and harm our customer relationships and reputation. In addition, in order to mitigate these risks, we maintain inventories of these supplies at higher levels than would be the case if multiple sources of supply were available. If our test volume decreases or we switch suppliers, we may hold excess inventory with expiration dates that occur before use which would adversely affect our losses and cash flow position. As we introduce any new test, we may experience supply issues as we ramp sales. 

Legal Proceedings 

From time to time, we may be party to lawsuits in the ordinary course of business. We are currently not a party to any material legal proceedings. 

Available Information 

We were incorporated in Delaware as Calderome, Inc. in August 2006. Calderome operated as an incubator until early 2008. We changed our name to Veracyte, Inc. in March 2008. Our principal executive offices are located at 6000 Shoreline Court, Suite 300, South San Francisco, California 94080 and our telephone number is (650) 243-6300. Our website address is www.veracyte.com. The information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K. 

We make available free of charge on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. The reports are also available at www.sec.gov . 

