 Item 1. Business. 

The Company 

We are an Internet security software and technology Company with patented technology for secure communications including 4G LTE security. Our software and technology solutions, including our Secure Domain Name Registry and GABRIEL Connection Technology&#8482;, are designed to facilitate secure communications and provide the security platform required by next-generation Internet-based applications such as instant messaging, or IM, voice over Internet protocol, or VoIP, mobile services, streaming video, file transfer, remote desktop and Machine-to-Machine, or M2M communications. Our technology generates secure connections on a &#147;zero-click&#148; or &#147;single-click&#148; basis, significantly simplifying the deployment of secure real-time communication solutions by eliminating the need for end-users to enter any encryption information. Our portfolio of intellectual property is the foundation of our business model. We currently own approximately 39 U.S. and 66 foreign patents with approximately 75 pending patent applications worldwide. Our patent portfolio is primarily focused on securing real-time communications over the Internet, as well as related services such as the establishment and maintenance of a secure domain name registry. Our patented methods also have additional applications in the key areas of device operating systems and network security for Cloud services, M2M communications in the new initiatives like &#147;Smart City&#148;, &#147;Connected Car&#148; and &#147;Connected Home&#148; that would connect everything from social services and citizen engagement to public safety, transportation and economic development to the internet to enable more productivity, features and efficiency in our everyday lives. The subject matter of all our U.S. and foreign patents and pending applications relates generally to securing communication over the internet, and as such covers all our technology and other products. Our issued U.S. and foreign patents expire at various times during the period from 2019 to 2024. Some of our issued patents and pending patent applications were acquired by our principal operating subsidiary; VirnetX, Inc., from Leidos, Inc., (f/k/a Science Applications International Corporation, or SAIC) in 2006 and we are required to make payments to Leidos, based on cash or certain other values generated from those patents. The amount of such payments depends upon the type of value generated, and certain categories are subject to maximums and other limitations.

Our product Gabriel Secure Communication Platform&#8482;, unlike other collaboration and communication products and services on the market today, does not require access to user&#146;s confidential data and minimizes the threat of hacking and data mining. It enables individuals and organizations to maintain complete ownership and control over their personal and confidential data, secured within their own private network, while enabling authorized secure encrypted access from anywhere at any time. Our Gabriel Collaboration Suite&#8482; is a set of applications that run on top of our Gabriel Secure Communication Platform&#8482;. It enables seamless and secure cross-platform communications between user&#146;s devices that have our software installed. Our Gabriel Collaboration Suite&#8482; is available for download and free trial, for Android, iOS, Windows, Linux and Mac OS X platforms, at http://www.gabrielsecure.com/ . We continue to enhance our products and add new functionality to our products. We will provide updates to new and existing customers as they are released to the general public. Over 80 small and medium businesses have installed our Gabriel Secure Communication Platform&#8482; and Gabriel Collaboration Suite&#8482; products in their corporate networks. We continue to rapidly expand our customer base with targeted promotions and direct sales initiatives. 

We have executed a number of patent and technology licenses and intend to seek further licensees for our technology, including our GABRIEL Connection Technology&#8482; to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, of chips, servers, smart phones, tablets, e-Readers, laptops, net books and other devices, within the IP-telephony, mobility, fixed-mobile convergence and unified communications markets including 4G/LTE Advanced.

We have submitted a declaration with the 3rd Generation Partnership Project, or 3GPP, identifying a group of our patents and patent applications that we believe are or may become essential to certain developing specifications in the 3GPP LTE, SAE project. We have agreed to make available a non-exclusive patent license under fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and conditions, with compensation, or FRAND, to 3GPP members desiring to implement the technical specifications identified by us. We believe that we are positioned to license our essential security patents to 3GPP members as they move into deploying 4G/LTE Advanced devices and solutions.

We have an ongoing Gabriel Licensing Program under which we offer licenses to our patent portfolio, technology and software, including our secure domain name registry service, to domain infrastructure providers, communication service providers as well as to system integrators. Our Gabriel Connection Technology&#8482; License is offered to OEM customers who want to adopt the GABRIEL Connection Technology&#8482; as their solution for establishing secure connections using secure domain names within their products. We have developed GABRIEL Connection 

Technology&#8482; Software Development Kit (SDK) to assist with rapid integration of these techniques into existing software implementations with minimal code changes and include object libraries, sample code, testing and quality assurance tools and the supporting documentation necessary for a customer to implement our technology. Customers who want to develop their own implementation of the VirnetX patented techniques for supporting secure domain names, or other techniques that are covered by our patent portfolio for establishing secure communication links, can purchase a patent license. The number of patents licensed, and therefore the cost of the patent license to the customer, will depend upon which of the patents are used in a particular product or service. These licenses will typically include an initial license fee, as well as an ongoing royalty.

We have signed Patent License Agreements with Avaya Inc., Aastra USA, Inc., Microsoft, Mitel Networks Corporation, NEC Corporation and NEC Corporation of America, Siemens Enterprise Communications GmbH &#38; Co. KG, and Siemens Enterprise Communications Inc. to license certain of our patents, for a one-time payment and/or an ongoing royalty for all future sales through the expiration of the licensed patents with respect to certain current and future IP-encrypted products. We have engaged IPVALUE Management Inc. to assist us in commercializing our portfolio of patents on securing real-time communications over the Internet. Under the multi-year agreement, IPVALUE is expected to originate and assist us with negotiating transactions related to patent licensing worldwide with respect to certain third parties. 

We believe that the market opportunity for our software and technology solutions is large and expanding as secure domain names are now an integral part of securing the next generation 4G/LTE Advanced wireless networks and M2M communications in areas including Smart City, Connected Car and Connected Home. We also believe that all 4G/LTE Advanced mobile devices will require unique secure domain names and become part of a secure domain name registry.

We intend to license our patent portfolio, technology and software, including our secure domain name registry service, to domain infrastructure providers, communication service providers as well as to system integrators. We intend to seek further license of our technology, including our GABRIEL Connection Technology&#8482; to enterprise customers, developers and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, of chips, servers, smart phones, tablets, e-Readers, laptops, net books and other devices, within the IP-telephony, mobility, fixed-mobile convergence and unified communications markets including 4G/LTE.

Our employees include the core development team behind our patent portfolio, technology and software. This team has worked together for over ten years and is the same team that invented and developed this technology while working at Leidos, Inc. Leidos, Inc. is a FORTUNE 500&#174; scientific, engineering and technology applications company that uses its deep domain knowledge to solve problems of vital importance to the nation and the world, in national security, energy and the environment, critical infrastructure and health. The team has continued its research and development work started at Leidos, and expanded the set of patents we acquired in 2006 from Leidos, into a larger portfolio of over 100 U.S. and international patents and with over 75 pending applications. This portfolio now serves as the foundation of our licensing business and planned service offerings and is expected to generate the majority of our future revenue in license fees and royalties. We intend to continue our research and development efforts to further strengthen and expand our patent portfolio. Please see Item 7 &#8211; Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#8211; Operations &#8211; Research and Development Expenses for a description of our research and development expenses for the past three fiscal years.

We intend to continue using an outsourced and leveraged model to maintain efficiency and manage costs as we grow our licensing business by, for example, offering incentives to early licensing targets or asserting our rights for use of our patents. We also intend to expand our design pilot in participation with leading 4G/LTE companies (domain infrastructure providers, chipset manufacturers, service providers and others) and build our secure domain name registry.

Industry Overview 

We believe that the rapid growth of mobile devices (smartphones/tablets/ultra-mobile PCs), with always-on network access, and need to socially interact with friends and family while maintaining a constant online presence has transformed the &#147;Internet of Web 2.0&#148; in to the &#147;The Internet of the People&#148;. It has become an evolving, rich and complex medium used by individuals and businesses to conduct commerce, share information and engage in real-time communications including email, text messaging, IM, and voice and video calls. We believe the user demand for high speed broadband access along with the quality of experience wherever they are and whatever BYOD (bring your own device) they may be using; Mobility, IP video delivery, and the move to cloud have dramatically 

changed the way service providers deliver services. While wireline networks remain the primary mechanism for delivering premium and high bandwidth services, its growth has held steady compared to the growth of the mobile communications. The cost barrier to obtaining a mobile device with data access has disappeared allowing billions of people to have online access on fixed and mobile networks, and those users accessing social networking websites, using peer-to-peer, or P2P applications, and uploading live content over the internet, which in turn is downloaded by millions, has led to staggering growth in packet traffic. Not only is traffic growing and changing in nature, it&#146;s location of origin and timing has become completely unpredictable. There is a significant impact on the mobile signaling network, brought on by smartphone penetration and consumer use of &#147;chatty&#148; applications that conduct frequent network queries.

We believe that as the users become more comfortable with using their smartphones/tablets and other connected devices, they will increasingly treat their mobile and fixed/WiFi networks as a single network and demand seamless transition from one network type to another without any disruption of service. The 4G/LTE standard was developed with the goal of creating a single IP network that is efficient, flexible, open up new business models and services revenues and eventually lead to true &#147;virtual networks&#148; or software-defined networks (SDN). The service providers were forced to perform complete overhaul of their telecom network infrastructure in order to move from TDM paradigm to next generation IP networks based on 4G/LTE for dealing with this rapidly growing demand. Before these network overhauls could be completed, some service providers decided to mislabel their hybrid 3.5G/HSPA+/partial LTE implementations as 4G networks in order to stem the loss of revenue and protect themselves against the threat of being forever relegated to the role of pipe provider. This marketing ploy has led to significant confusion and misunderstanding among users.

Adding further fuel to the demand for mobile and fixed broadband services is the fast adoption of connected machines or devices, or embedded systems capable of M2M communication. These M2M communications are made possible by a device (non-phone/tablet/pc such as a sensor) that is attached to a machine to capture an event that is relayed over a network via 3G/4G routers or fixed broadband lines, delivering data or events (such as temperature, location, consumption, heart rate, stress levels, light, movement, altitude and speed) to applications creating an &#147;Internet of Things&#148; or IoT. As the service providers start deploying true 4G (Long Term Evolution-Advanced, or LTE-Advanced) and this pace picks up, we believe that almost every device will get its own unique identity and a high-speed connection to the internet over a high speed IP (Internet Protocol) based telecommunication network making it an &#147;Internet of Everything&#148;.

We believe that growing security concerns and vulnerabilities in a large number of use-case scenarios due to the inherent &#147;open&#148; nature of this architecture can throttle the successful adoption of these technologies. Security can no longer exist as a point solution, and enterprises everywhere are currently upgrading core IT infrastructure (systems, networks, and management) to integrate security into everything. Because of the complexity of today&#146;s networks and the requirement to connect users from any location at any time on any device, enterprise buyers looking to improve security posture have to evaluate everything from software solutions for smartphones to routers and switches with integrated security, massive security appliances for data centers, cloud-based security services, and security solutions for virtualized environments and public and private clouds.

The portions of the IP-telephony, mobility, fixed-mobile convergence and unified communications markets that could benefit from our software and technology solutions, as forecasted by Infonetics and by our internal estimates, are expected to grow from approximately $96 billion of worldwide revenues in 2012 to approximately $342 billion by 2017, representing a compound annual growth rate, or CAGR, of approximately 29%. We believe that this growing trend represents a significant opportunity for us to license our technology and software, and establish our secure domain name registry.

Enterprise Telephony &#8211; Unified Communications, VoIP, Telepresence and Video Conferencing 

Enterprise Telephony includes technologies that use Internet Protocol&#146;s packet-switched connections to exchange voice, fax, and other forms of information traditionally carried over the dedicated circuit-switched connections of the public switched telephone network, or PSTN. The adoption of Enterprise Telephony has helped businesses significantly lower network operating costs by using a common network for voice and data. As the workforce becomes increasingly dispersed, mobile features enabled by Internet protocol-based communications such as presence, unified messaging, peer-to-peer applications, find me/follow me, white-boarding and document sharing have become more commonplace. However, the development of the related security infrastructure has lagged behind, leaving next-generation networks vulnerable to a multitude of threats including man-in-middle, eavesdropping, 

domain hijacking, distributed denial of service, or DDoS, spam over Internet telephony, or SPIT, and spam over instant messaging, or SPIM. These threats continue to highlight the need for securing next-generation networks. As the use of Enterprise Telephony systems extends beyond the boundaries of an organization&#146;s private network, security is likely to become an even bigger concern. Enterprises are increasingly deploying an array of communication methodologies integrated into a single communications experience is often referred to as unified communications. We believe that unified communications have higher utility and can increase productivity for users. The basic components of unified communications include: a directory for storing addresses, various modes of communication with each user/contact (desk phone, mobile phone, IM, etc.), message storage for all messages regardless of communication method and secure presence of a user's status for each mode of communication (available, away, busy, etc.).

Based on our estimates using Infonetics and other market data, we believe that worldwide revenue from IP telephony products like IP-PBX including IP phones, service provider VoIP and IMS equipment, VoIP gateways, Enterprise Telepresence and Video Conferencing for businesses and Unified Communication clients, is expected to grow from approximately $38 billion in 2012 to approximately $60 billion in 2017, representing a CAGR of approximately 9%. We believe our unique and patented solution provides the robust security platform required for providing on-demand secure communication links between enterprises intending to communicate securely without manually configuring the connections. We believe a standard security solution such as ours will further accelerate the adoption of Enterprise telephony products in the market and allow enterprises to take full advantage of these rich content applications and real-time communications over the Internet, thereby significantly increasing their return on investment.

IP Mobility- Smartphones, Embedded Devices, Machine-to-Machine (M2M) Devices (LTE) 

We believe that telecommunication markets are rapidly changing and presenting new challenges to the equipment and service providers, including but not limited to increasing user demand for mobile, always-on connections with multiple devices. We also believe that traffic growth, video acceleration, cloud services and a rapidly growing number of subscribers challenge currently available network architectures and that, because of this, service providers and carriers will eventually use a single network for fixed and mobile communications, private/premium communications and Internet access, in spite of the difficulties involved challenging their business models and forcing the consideration of new network architectures. We believe that LTE technology will deliver users the benefits of faster data speeds and new services by creating a new radio access technology that's optimized for IP-based traffic and offers operators a simple upgrade path from 3G networks.

Smartphones are multi-functional devices that handle a wide variety of business-critical applications and support increasingly complex functions including enhanced data processing, Internet access, e-mail access, calendars and scheduling, contact management and the ability to view electronic documents. Users have continual access to these applications while on the move making them an increasingly essential business tool for the mobile worker. These devices enable mobile workers to have similar functionality inside or outside the office thereby increasing employee efficiency. However, it is critical that this mobile environment have the same level of security as an enterprise's internal network.

Embedded mobile broadband computing devices include PCs, netbooks, tablets, and mobile Internet devices (MIDs) with embedded mobile broadband modems to enable Internet access via a mobile broadband network. A growing number of these devices are now shipping enabled with LTE/4G. Mobile Internet devices (MIDs) include handheld mobile Internet devices; e.g. eReader, gaming console, digital picture frame, digital camera, with embedded mobile broadband modems. Mobile broadband routers have mobile broadband modems or antenna as the broadband connection; have multiple Ethernet ports and integrated wireless access points for local area connectivity and bandwidth sharing; can have integrated hub or switch; may have an integrated stateful firewall or IPSec VPN and are also known as mobile hotspot routers.

Machine-to-Machine, or M2M, connected devices, or embedded systems; connected machines are fast becoming the eyes and ears of the enterprise. By adding sensors and networking technologies to the products they sell and the equipment they employ, companies are finding new ways to gather powerful insights and use new forms of data, thus creating a vast &#147;internet of things&#148;. This communication is made possible by a device (such as an intelligent sensor) that is attached to a machine to capture an event, such as such as temperature, location, consumption, heart rate, stress levels, light, movement, altitude and speed, that is relayed over a network delivering data to applications. The potential applications for this technology are numerous and as such include smart meters in energy and utilities (the &#147;smart grid&#148;), connected vehicles in automotive and logistics, heart monitors in healthcare, RFID tagged inventory 

in retail and manufacturing, and digital signage in media and communications to name a few. Another fast growing application is in the wearable technology products namely, fitness and wellness, infotainment (information-based media content), healthcare and medical, and industrial and military. The fitness and wellness segment comprises products like smart clothing and smart sensors, activity monitors, sleep sensors and others, whereas the Infotainment sector consists of products like smart watches, heads-up displays, smart glasses and others. The products like continuous glucose monitor, drug delivery, monitors, wearable patches and others have been covered under healthcare and medical segment and products like hand worn terminals, augmented reality headsets and others have been mentioned under industrial and military segment. We believe that the large revenue potential for M2M services that has attracted the attention of carriers globally risks being thwarted by the growing security concerns in M2M applications. Porous security is exposing vulnerabilities in a large number of use-case scenarios, including cars, energy management systems, telemedicine, and telemetry. While built-in security is a high priority in all other information and communication technologies, it is yet to be considered, even at a basic level, in most M2M applications. The rapid and successful adoption of M2M in automobiles, healthcare, industrial installations, and consumer homes may be jeopardized if communication security is not designed in to all M2M devices and applications. All these new devices will require a unique identity addressable by a secure domain name and all their communications, with application servers and other devices, completely secured automatically and on-demand.

IP mobility services require an environment where wired and wireless phones work together with Internet Protocol to deliver services (voice, video, data and combinations thereof) uniformly across multiple access networks, including, among others, LTE, WiMAX, WiFi cellular and fixed. Based on our estimates using Infonetics and other market data, we believe that worldwide revenue from IP mobility products like smartphones, embedded devices, hotspots and mobile data cards, femtocell equipment, M2M communication devices and services is expected to grow from approximately $57 billion in 2012 to approximately $282 billion by 2017, representing a CAGR of approximately 37%. We believe in order to realize the full functionality of IP mobility, several challenges including security must be overcome. When users are mobile, connections and data need to cross multiple network boundaries, each of which poses a security threat. Wireless networks may be threatened or compromised by rogue users who enter through (insecure wireless access points. We believe that providing authenticated access to the M2M networks and enterprise applications are important requirements and represent a significant market opportunity for our patented technology and secure domain names to provide users or machines fully authenticated secure access on a &#147;zero-click&#148; or &#147;single-click&#148; basis.

Our Solutions 

Our software and technology solutions, including our secure domain name registry, our patents and our GABRIEL Connection Technology&#8482; are designed to secure all types of real-time communications over the Internet. Our technology uses industry standard encryption methods with our patented DNS lookup mechanisms to create a secure communication link between users intending to communicate in real time over the Internet. Our technology can be built into network infrastructure, operating systems or silicon chips developed for a communication or computing device to secure real-time communications over the Internet between numerous devices. Our technology automatically encrypts data allowing organizations and individuals to establish communities of secure, registered users and transmit information between multiple devices, networks and operating systems. These secure network communities, which we call secure private domains, or SPDs, are designed to be fully-customizable and support rich content applications such as IM, VoIP, mobile services, streaming video, file transfer and remote desktop in a completely secure environment. Our approach is a unique and patented solution that we believe provides the robust security platform required by these rich content applications and real-time communications over the Internet. We believe the key benefits and features of our technology include the following:

&#8226; Automatic and seamless to the user . After a one-time registration, users connect securely on a &#147;zero-click&#148; or &#147;single-click&#148; basis. 

&#8226; Secure data communications . Users create secure networks with people they trust and communicate over a secure channel. 

&#8226; Control of data at all times . Users can secure and customize their unified communication and collaboration applications such as file sharing and remote desktop with policy-based access and secure presence information. 

&#8226; Authenticated users . Users know they are communicating with authenticated users with secure domain names. 

&#8226; Application-agnostic technology . Our solution provides security at the IP layer of the network by using patented DNS lookup mechanisms to make connections between secure domain names, thereby obviating the need to provide application specific security. 

Our Products 

Our Gabriel Secure Communication Platform&#8482;, unlike other collaboration and communication products and services on the market today, does not require access to user&#146;s confidential data and minimizes the threat of hacking and data mining. It enables individuals and organizations to maintain complete ownership and control over their personal and confidential data, secured within their own private network, while enabling authorized secure encrypted access from anywhere at any time. Our Gabriel Collaboration Suite&#8482; is a set of applications that run on top of our Gabriel Secure Communication Platform&#8482;. It enables seamless and secure cross-platform communications between user&#146;s devices. The following applications are included in the current release and can be easily accessed through the Gabriel interface:

&#8226; Secure chat - allows users to quickly send and receive text, files and screen shots 

&#8226; Secure share - allows users to grant coworkers read/write access to desired folders 

&#8226; Secure video/voice - provides users ability to conduct audio and/or video conferencing securely with any other Gabriel user 

&#8226; Secure mail - allows users to send email and attachments directly from sender to recipient without requiring a centralized mail server 

&#8226; Secure sync/backup - allows users to quickly push single files or automatically backup your files to one or multiple Gabriel destinations 

Our Gabriel Collaboration Suite&#8482; is available for download and free trial, for Android, iOS, Windows, Linux and Mac OS X platforms, at http://www.gabrielsecure.com/ . We continue to enhance our products and add new functionality to our products. We will provide updates to new and existing customers as they are released publically. Over 80 small and medium businesses have installed our Gabriel Secure Communication Platform&#8482; and Gabriel Collaboration Suite&#8482; products in their corporate networks. We continue to rapidly expand our customer base with targeted promotions and direct sales initiatives.

Competitive Strengths 

We believe the following competitive strengths will enable our success in the marketplace:

&#8226; Unique patented technology . We are focused on developing innovative technology for securing real-time communications over the Internet, and establishing the exclusive secure domain name registry in the United States and other key markets around the world. Our unique solutions combine industry standard encryption methods and communication protocols with our patented techniques for automated DNS lookup mechanisms. Our technology and patented approach enables users to create a secure communication link by generating secure domain names. We currently own approximately 39 U.S. and 66 foreign patents with approximately 75 pending patents applications worldwide. Our portfolio includes patents and pending patent applications in the United States and other key markets that support our secure domain name registry service for the Internet. 

&#8226; Scalable licensing business model . We are actively engaged in pursuing additional licensing agreements with OEMs, service providers and system integrators within the IP-telephony, mobility, mobile-to-mobile communications, fixed-mobile convergence and unified communications end-markets. 

&#8226; Highly experienced research and development team . Our research and development team is comprised of nationally recognized network security and encryption technology scientists and experts that have worked together as a team for over ten years. During their careers, this team has developed several cutting-edge technologies for U.S. national defense, intelligence and civilian agencies, many of which remain critical to our national security today. Prior to joining VirnetX, our team worked for Leidos, during which time they invented the technology that is the foundation of our technology, and software. Based on the collective knowledge and experience of our development team, we believe that we have one of the most experienced and sophisticated groups of security experts researching vulnerability and threats to real-time communication over the Internet and developing solutions to mitigate these problems. 

Our Strategy 

Our strategy is to become the market leader in securing real-time communications over the Internet and to establish our GABRIEL Communications Technology&#8482; as the industry standard security platform. Key elements of our strategy are to:

&#8226; Actively promote our Gabriel Secure Communication Platform&#8482; and Gabriel Collaboration Suite&#8482; products in the general market for sale directly to end-user enterprises with targeted promotions and other marketing programs. 

&#8226; Continue to grow our technology licensing program to commercialize our intellectual property, including our GABRIEL Connection Technology&#8482; by adding more licensees in partnership with IPValue. 

&#8226; Establish VirnetX as the exclusive universal registry of secure domain names and to enable our customers to act as registrars for their users and broker secure communication between users on different registries. 

We have submitted a declaration with the 3rd Generation Partnership Project, or 3GPP, identifying a group of our patents and patent applications that we believe are or may become essential to certain developing specifications in the 3GPP LTE, SAE project. We have agreed to make available a non-exclusive patent license under fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and conditions, with compensation, or FRAND, to 3GPP members desiring to implement the technical specifications identified by us. We have also submitted a number of updates to our original declaration, identifying additional technical specifications that would also require a license to our US and International patents.

License and Service Offerings 

We offer a diversified portfolio of license and service offerings focused on securing real-time communications over the Internet, including:

&#8226; VirnetX technology licensing : Customers who want to develop their own implementation of the VirnetX code module for supporting secure domain names, or who want to use their own techniques that are covered by our patent portfolio for establishing secure communication links, could purchase a technology license. We anticipate that these licenses would typically include an initial license fee, as well as an ongoing royalty. We expect that these licenses will include a one-time delivery of GABRIEL software development kit including object libraries, sample code, testing and quality assurance tools and the supporting documentation necessary for a customer to implement of the techniques we have developed. 

&#8226; GABRIEL Connection Technology&#8482; Software Development Kit or SDK : OEM customers who want to adopt the GABRIEL Connection Technology&#8482; as their solution for establishing secure connections using secure domain names within their products could purchase an SDK license. The software development kit consists of object libraries, sample code, testing and quality assurance tools and the supporting documentation necessary for a customer to implement our technology. These tools are comprised of software for a secure domain name connection test server, a relay test server and a registration test server. We expect that customers would pay an up-front license fee to purchase an SDK license and a royalty fee for every product shipped with the embedded VirnetX code module. 

&#8226; Secure domain name registrar service : Customers, including service providers, telecommunication companies, ISPs, system integrators and OEMs could purchase a license to our secure domain name registrar service. We would provide the software suite and technology support to enable such customers to provision devices with secure domain names and facilitate secure connections between registered devices. This suite includes the following server software modules: 

&#8226; Registrar server software : We anticipate that our registrar server software would enable customers to operate as a secure domain name registrar that provisions devices with secure domain names. The registrar server software is designed to provide an interface for our customers to register new virtual private domains and sub-domain names. This server module must be enrolled with the VirnetX secure domain name master registry to obtain its credentials before functioning as an authorized registrar. 

&#8226; Connection server software : We anticipate that our connection server software would allow customers to provide connection services to enrolled devices. The connection services include registration of presence information for authenticated users and devices, presence information query request services, enforcement of policies and support for communication with peers behind firewalls. 

&#8226; Relay server software : We anticipate that our relay server software would allow customers to dynamically maintain connections and relay data to private IP addresses for network devices that reside behind firewalls. Secure domain name registrar service customers will enter into a technology licensing and revenue sharing agreement with VirnetX whereby we will typically receive an up-front licensing fee for the secure domain name registrar technology, as well as ongoing annual royalties for each secure domain name issued by the customer. 

&#8226; Secure domain name master registry and connection service : As part of enabling the secure domain name registrar service, we expect that we will maintain and manage the secure domain name master registry. This service is expected to enroll all secure domain name registrar customers and generate the credentials required to function as an authorized registrar. It also is expected to provide connection services and universal name resolution, presence information and secure connections between authorized devices with secure domain names. 

&#8226; Technical support services : We intend to provide high-quality technical support services to licensees and customers for the rapid customization and deployment of GABRIEL Connection Technology&#8482; in an individual customer&#8217;s products and services. 

Our research and development team was the team responsible for inventing the claimed subject matter of the patents that form the foundation of our technology. This team has worked together for over ten years. We intend to leverage this experience and continue investing in research and development and, over time, expect to strengthen and expand our patent portfolio, technology, and software. While we are currently focused on securing real-time communications over the Internet and establishing the first and only secure domain name registry, we believe our existing and future intellectual property portfolio will extend to additional areas including, among others, network security and operating systems for fixed and mobile devices.

Customers 

Our Gabriel Collaboration Suite&#8482; is available for download and free trial, for Android, iOS, Windows, Linux and Mac OS X platforms, at http://www.gabrielsecure.com/ . We continue to enhance our products and add new functionality to our products. We will provide updates to new and existing customers as they are released publically. Over 80 small and medium businesses have installed our Gabriel Secure Communication Platform&#8482; and Gabriel Collaboration Suite&#8482; products in their corporate networks. We continue to rapidly expand our customer base with targeted promotions and direct sales initiatives.

We have signed Patent License Agreements with Aastra USA, Inc. Avaya, Inc., Microsoft, Mitel Networks Corporation, NEC Corporation and NEC Corporation of America, Siemens Enterprise Communications GmbH &#38; Co. KG, and Siemens Enterprise Communications Inc. to license certain of our patents, for a one-time payment and an ongoing royalty for all future sales through the expiration of the licensed patents with respect to certain current and future IP-encrypted products.

We intend to seek further license of our technology, including our GABRIEL Connection Technology&#8482; to developers and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, of chips, servers, smart phones, tablets, e-Readers, laptops, net books and other devices, within the IP-telephony, mobility, fixed-mobile convergence and unified communications markets including 4G/LTE. We have published our royalty rates and guidelines on our website. All forward moving licenses have adhered to these guidelines and have met or exceeded these rates and we will use these rates and guidelines in all future license negotiations.

Marketing and Sales 

We plan to employ a leveraged, partner-oriented, marketing strategy for our technology licenses and software product offerings. We are actively working on a number of sales and marketing promotions that may involve online and direct sales programs as we seek to build out our customer base in 2016. 

We plan to directly market our Gabriel Secure Communication Platform&#8482; and Gabriel Collaboration Suite&#8482; products, domain name registry services to our service provider and system integrator customers. We market our Gabriel line of products directly to small and medium businesses using online marketing programs and tools. We hope to leverage our relationship with Leidos, to extend our offering to departments and agencies within the federal government. Leidos is a FORTUNE 500&#174; scientific, engineering and technology applications company that uses its deep domain knowledge to solve problems of vital importance to the nation and the world, in national security, energy 

and the environment, critical infrastructure, and health. We intend to leverage our sales team for managing current accounts and pursuing sales opportunities with new customers.

Competition 

We believe our technology and solutions will compete primarily against various proprietary security solutions. We group these solutions into three main categories:

&#8226; Proprietary or home-grown application specific security solutions have been developed by vendors and integrated directly into their products for our target markets including IP-telephony, mobility, fixed-mobile convergence, and unified communications. These proprietary solutions have been developed due to the lack of standardized approaches to securing real-time communications. This approach has led to corporate networks that are isolated and, as a result, restrict enterprises to using these next-generation networks within the boundaries of their private network. These solutions generally do not provide security for communications over the Internet or require network administrators to manually exchange keys and other security parameters with each destination network outside their corporate network boundary. The cost-savings and other benefits of IP-based real-time communications are significantly limited by this approach to securing real-time communications. 

&#8226; A session border controller, or SBC, is a device used in networks to exert control over the signaling and media streams involved in establishing, conducting and terminating VoIP calls. A traditional firewall or network address translation, or NAT, device typically block information like endpoint IP addresses and port numbers required by signaling protocols, such as SIP and XMPP, to reach and communicate with their intended destination. SBCs are used in physical networks to address these limitations and enable real-time session traffic to cross the boundaries created by firewalls and other NAT devices and enable VoIP calls to be established successfully. However, SBCs must decrypt and analyze every single data packet for the information to be transmitted successfully, thereby preventing end-to-end encryption. This network design results in SBCs becoming a single point of congestion on the network, as well as a single point of failure. SBCs are also limited to the physical network they secure. 

&#8226; SIP firewalls, or SIP-aware firewalls, and application layer gateways, manage and protect the traffic, flow and quality of VoIP and other SIP-related communications. They perform real-time network address translation, dynamic firewall functions; support multiple signaling protocols, and media functionality, allowing secure interconnection and the flow of IP media streams across multiple networks. While SIP firewalls assist in analyzing SIP traffic transmitted over the corporate network to filter out various threats, they do not necessarily encrypt the traffic. As a result, this traffic is not entirely secure from end-to-end nor is it protected against threats like man-in-middle and eavesdropping. 

Intellectual Property and Patent Rights 

Our intellectual property is primarily comprised of trade secrets, patented know-how, issued and pending patents, copyrights and technological innovation.

We currently own approximately 39 U.S. and 66 foreign patents with approximately 75 pending patents applications worldwide. Our portfolio includes a number of patents that describe unique systems and methods for securing real-time communications over the Internet, as well as related services such as the establishment and maintenance of a secure domain name registry. Our software and technology solutions also have additional applications relating to operating systems and network security. A complete list of our US patents is available on our website located at www.virnetx.com. Each patent is publicly accessible on the Internet website of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office at www.uspto.gov. The term of each of our issued U.S. and foreign patents will expire during the period from 2019 to 2024.

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that might incorporate future filings, the information set forth on the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO Website, shall not be deemed to be a part of or incorporated by reference into any such filings. The Company does not warrant the accuracy, or completeness or adequacy of the USPTO Website, and expressly disclaims liability for errors or omissions on such website. 

Assignment of Patents 

Some of our issued patents and pending patent applications were acquired by our principal operating subsidiary, VirnetX, Inc., from Leidos, pursuant to an Assignment Agreement dated December 21, 2006, and a Patent License and Assignment Agreement dated August 12, 2005, as amended on November 2, 2006, including documents prepared pursuant to the November amendment, and as further amended on March 12, 2008. We recorded the assignment from Leidos, with the U.S. Patent Office on December 21, 2006.

Key terms of these agreements are as follows:

Patent Assignment . Leidos, unconditionally and irrevocably conveyed, transferred, assigned and quitclaimed all its right, title and interest in and to the patents and patent applications, as specifically set forth on Exhibit A to the assignment document recorded with the U.S. Patent Office, including, without limitation, the right to sue for past infringement.

License to Leidos, Outside the Field of Use. On November 2, 2006, we granted to Leidos, an exclusive, royalty free, fully paid, perpetual, worldwide, irrevocable, sub licensable and transferable right and license permitting Leidos, and its assignees to make, have made, import, use, offer for sale, and sell products and services covered by, and to make improvements to, the patents and patent applications we acquired from Leidos, solely outside our field of use. We have, and retain, all right, title and interest to all our patents within our field of use. On March 12, 2008, Leidos relinquished the November 2, 2006, exclusive right and license outside our field of use referred to above, as well as any right to obtain such exclusive license in the future. Effective March 12, 2008, we granted to Leidos, a non-exclusive, royalty free, fully paid, perpetual, worldwide, irrevocable, sub licensable and transferable right and license permitting Leidos, and its assignees to make, have made, import, use, offer for sale, and sell products and services covered by, and to make improvements to, the patents and patent applications we acquired from Leidos, solely outside our field of use.

Compensation Obligations. As consideration for the assignment of the patents and for the rights we obtained from Leidos, as amended, we are required to make payments to Leidos, based on cash or certain other values generated from those patents. The amount of such payments depends upon the type of value generated, and certain categories are subject to maximums and other limitations. As of June 30, 2010, we met our maximum royalty payment requirement; however, Leidos, is also entitled under certain circumstances to receive a portion of the proceeds paid to us for certain acquisitions of VirnetX, from the settlement of certain patent infringement claims of ours.

Government Regulation 

The laws governing online secure communications remain largely unsettled, even in areas where there has been legislative action. It may take years to determine whether and how existing laws governing intellectual property, privacy and libel apply to online communications and media. Such legislation may interfere with the growth in use of online secure communications and decrease the acceptance of online secure communications as a viable solution, which could adversely affect our business.

Due to the Internet&#146;s popularity and increasing use, new laws regulating secure communications may be adopted. These laws and regulations may cover, among other things, issues relating to privacy, pricing, taxation, telecommunications over the Internet, content, copyrights, distribution and quality of products and services. We intend to comply with all new laws and regulations as they are adopted.

The U.S. government has controlled the authoritative domain name system, or DNS, root server since the inception of the Internet. On July 1, 1997, the President of the United States directed the U.S. Secretary of Commerce to privatize the management of the domain name system in a manner that increases competition and facilitates international participation in its management.

On September 29, 2006, the U.S. Department of Commerce extended its delegation of authority by entering into a new agreement with the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, or ICANN, a California non-profit corporation headquartered in Marina Del Rey, California. ICANN is responsible for managing the accreditation of registry providers and registrars that manage the assignment of top level domain names associated with the authoritative DNS root directory. Although it is possible to create and manage other DNS root directories privately without accreditation from ICANN, the possibility of conflicting name and number assignments makes it less likely that users would widely adopt a top level domain name associated with an alternative DNS root directory provided by a non-ICANN-accredited registry service.

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 we had 20 full and part-time employees.

Corporate Overview and History 

VirnetX, Inc., was incorporated in the State of Delaware in August 2005. In November 2006, VirnetX acquired certain patents from Leidos. In July 2007, we effected a reverse merger between PASW, Inc. and VirnetX, which became our principal operating subsidiary. As a result of this merger, the former security holders of VirnetX came to own a majority of our outstanding common stock. On October 29, 2007 we changed our name from PASW, Inc. to VirnetX Holding Corporation.

Available Information 

We file or furnish various reports, such as registration statements, periodic and current reports, proxy statements and other materials with the SEC. Our Internet website address is www.virnetx.com. You may obtain, free of charge on our Internet website, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information we post is intended for reference purposes only; none of the information posted on our website is part of this report or incorporated by reference herein.

In addition to the materials that are posted on our website, you may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and other information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file electronically with the SEC. The Internet address of the SEC&#146;s Internet site is http://www.sec.gov.

