 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview 

Vicor Corporation designs, develops, manufactures, and markets modular power components and power systems for converting, regulating, and controlling electric current. We consider power components analogous to 

&#160;

building blocks, and our strategy is based largely on products, performing distinct functions, that can be flexibly combined to enable a complete power system. We serve customers with applications for which the high conversion efficiency (i.e., the ratio of output power in watts to the power consumed by the device) and high power density (i.e., the amount of power in watts divided by the volume of the device) of our products are well suited. We also offer a range of subsystems, utilizing our modular components, to meet the specific needs of certain customers. 

In the market segments we serve, we position the Company as a vendor of power components that can be utilized individually, given their market-leading performance, or combined, given their level of integration, to create highly-differentiated power management solutions. We articulate this positioning through our &#147;Power Component Design Methodology&#148;, which is our approach to providing our customers the modular products, design tools, and support to enable the rapid design of comprehensive power conversion and management systems. 

Our website, www.vicorpower.com, sets forth detailed information describing our Power Component Design Methodology, all of our products, the applications for which they may be used, and our suite of design tools. The information contained on our website is not a part of, nor incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K and shall not be deemed &#147;filed&#148; under the Exchange Act. 

We are headquartered in Andover, Massachusetts, where our manufacturing facility is located. We conduct business primarily through the activities of our Brick Business Unit (&#147;BBU&#148;), established in 2005, and our two operating subsidiaries, Picor Corporation, established in 2001, and VI Chip Corporation, established in 2007. Picor Corporation is headquartered in North Smithfield, Rhode Island, and also has personnel based in Andover, Massachusetts. VI Chip Corporation also is headquartered in Andover, Massachusetts, where its manufacturing facilities are co-located with those of the BBU. 

Our Vicor Custom Power &#153; locations are geographically distributed across the United States and all are incorporated in Delaware. In December 2015, we completed the statutory merger of one Vicor Custom Power subsidiary, Mission Power Solutions, Inc., with and into another subsidiary, Northwest Power, Inc., after which we closed the Mission Power Solutions location. Also in December 2015, we sold our 49% ownership interest in Aegis Power Systems, Inc. to Aegis Power Systems, thereby ending our formal relationship with the subsidiary. The consolidated financial statements presented herein reflect these transactions. 

Internationally, we conduct business through subsidiaries incorporated in or branch offices established in individual countries. Vicor Japan Company, Ltd. (&#147;VJCL&#148;), our majority-owned Japanese subsidiary, which is engaged in sales and customer support activities exclusively for the Japanese market, is headquartered in Tokyo, Japan. Vicor B.V., a wholly-owned subsidiary incorporated in the Netherlands, serves as our European distribution center. We have established individual subsidiaries or branch offices to conduct the activities of Technical Support Centers (&#147;TSCs&#148;) located outside of the United States. 

VLT, Inc., incorporated in California, is our wholly-owned licensing subsidiary. VICR Securities Corporation, incorporated in Massachusetts, is a subsidiary established to hold certain investment securities. 

Our subsidiaries and their legal domicile are set forth in Exhibit 21.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The activities of all of the above named entities are consolidated in the financial statements presented herein. 

We were incorporated in Delaware in 1981. Shares of our Common Stock were listed on the NASDAQ National Market System in April 1990 under the ticker symbol VICR, and we completed an initial public offering of our shares in May 1991. 

&#160;

Market Background and Our Strategy 

In electrically-powered devices utilizing alternating current (&#147;AC&#148;) voltage from a primary AC source (for example, a wall outlet), a power system converts AC voltage into the stable direct current (&#147;DC&#148;) voltage necessary to power subsystems and/or individual applications and devices (known as &#147;loads&#148;). In many electronic devices, this DC voltage may be further converted to one or more higher or lower voltages required by a range of loads. In equipment utilizing DC voltage from a primary DC source (for example, a battery), the initial DC voltage similarly may require further conversion to one or more voltages. Because numerous applications requiring different DC voltages and varied power ratings may exist within an electronic device, and system power architectures themselves vary, we offer an extensive range of products and accessories in numerous application-specific configurations. We believe our product offering is among the most comprehensive in the market segments we serve. 

Since the Company was founded, our product strategy has been driven by innovations in design, largely enabled by our focus on the development of differentiated technologies, often implemented in proprietary semiconductor circuitry. Many of our products incorporate patented or proprietary implementations of high-frequency switching topologies, which enable the design of converter modules much smaller and more efficient than conventional alternatives. Emphasizing the superior power density and performance advantages of this technology, our primary product strategy since our founding has been to offer a comprehensive range of component-level building blocks to configure a power system specific to a customer&#146;s needs. 

Our strategy, competitive positioning, and product offerings, all based on highly differentiated product performance, have anticipated the evolution of system power architectures. As system designs advanced along with the demands of the loads powered, the inherent limitations of historically accepted system power architectures have caused designers to seek out improved solutions. 

In 1984, we introduced a significant enhancement of the standardized DC-DC converter: the fully-encapsulated &#147;brick&#148; module. Our innovative, patented technology utilized our implementation of zero current soft switching topology to deliver unprecedentedly high switching frequencies and, in turn, unprecedented power density. Superior conversion efficiency, overall performance improvements, and full encapsulation (which provided shielding from environmental influences) contributed to significant enhancement of thermal performance characteristics, an important competitive advantage. Such thermal performance enhancement has been critical to the differentiation of our power converters, as the by-product of voltage conversion is heat, which must be dissipated in order to assure the performance of the converter itself and the overall system to which it is delivering power. 

The brick module integrated transformation, regulation, isolation, filtering, and/or input protection into a single device, thereby driving the adoption of the Distributed Power Architecture (&#147;DPA&#148;). The dominant system power architecture up until that time, the Centralized Power Architecture (&#147;CPA&#148;), generates all system voltages centrally and distributes these voltages to loads using individual distribution buses (i.e., a conductive circuit, generally made of copper). CPA became expensive and impractical for electronic systems increasingly characterized by widely distributed loads requiring lower voltages, higher currents, and higher speeds. DPA, enabled by the brick concept, allows the distribution of one DC voltage system-wide and downstream conversion of that voltage, with a brick, at a specific load. This approach allows electricity to be distributed through a complex system in the most efficient manner, at a uniform higher voltage (typically 48 volts), thereby dramatically reducing distribution and conversion losses, lowering copper consumption, and significantly increasing design flexibility. With patented advances in switching topology and converter design, Vicor became a leading vendor of brick DC-DC converters in the 1980s and 1990s, particularly within the telecommunications infrastructure segment of the market. 

With the advent of enterprise computing in the 1990s, the limitations of DPA became apparent, as the number of different loads on a system board increased beyond the level for which DPA and bricks were well-

&#160;

suited. The Intermediate Bus Architecture (&#147;IBA&#148;), a multi-stage extension of DPA, addressed the space constraints, performance requirements, and cost challenges of highly complex system boards by further separating the functions of DC conversion carried out by the brick, which in IBA is replaced by an isolated bus converter delivering a stepped-down (i.e., reduced), unregulated voltage to a non-isolated point-of-load regulator. For computing and, later, networking applications, IBA was more scalable and cost-efficient, as numerous brick DC-DC converters on a system board were replaced by one brick DC-DC converter, providing one system-wide distributed voltage, accompanied by numerous, lower-cost bus converters providing an intermediate bus voltage, typically from 5 to 14 volts, to point-of-load regulators. 

Two significant industry changes coincided with the broad adoption of IBA in the late 1990s and the early 2000s. The first change was the significant decline of the telecommunications infrastructure segment that represented our primary focus, while the second change was a pronounced shift toward product commoditization, primarily driven by globalization. These two changes had an interrelated impact on our strategy, as the primary driver of IBA adoption was initial cost reduction, not system conversion efficiency. As such, IBA was broadly implemented using 12 volt distribution, not the more efficient 48 volt distribution, our core competency. 

Unwilling to pursue rapidly commoditized market opportunities, notably in IBA, and unwilling to relocate our manufacturing to lower-cost countries, we shifted our strategy and operations in the 2000s to emphasize &#147;mass customization&#148;, using highly automated, efficient, domestic manufacturing to serve customers with product design and performance requirements, across a wide range of worldwide market segments, that could not be met by high-volume oriented competitors. We focused on applications, largely implementations of DPA, for which our brick DC-DC converters were well-suited, in market segments such as aerospace and defense electronics, industrial automation and equipment, instrumentation and test equipment, and transportation (e.g., rail). This strategy has been the basis upon which the BBU has competed since this strategic and operational shift. The customers served range from independent manufacturers of highly specialized electronic devices to larger original equipment manufacturers (&#147;OEMs&#148;) and their contract manufacturers. 

During the 2000s, we embarked on a long-term strategy based on our belief that our competitors&#146; products and existing system power architectures, notably IBA, would not meet evolving market requirements, notably system conversion efficiency. Over the last decade, we have invested significantly in the development of new power component technologies and product concepts addressing two meaningful market trends, the first toward higher required conversion efficiencies, and the second toward higher currents, more and diverse on-board voltages, and the higher performance demands of numerous complex loads. Reflecting the versatile, building block approach of our Power Component Design Methodology, we introduced our Factorized Power Architecture &#153; (&#147;FPA&#148;), an innovative, component-based approach to flexible, rapid system design, based on separate components optimized to perform a specific function. We continue to believe FPA represents a compelling architectural alternative to other architectural implementations, as it offers superior conversion efficiency, higher power density, improved system responsiveness, and an attractive total cost of ownership, while offering design flexibility FPA increases total system conversion efficiency by separating power conversion stages, reducing the number of stages required (i.e., duplicated functions requiring separate components), reducing system distribution losses, and reducing power dissipation at the point-of-load. 

To support implementation of FPA, we introduced our initial range of VI Chip modules exploiting our proprietary expertise in soft switching topologies and control, power semiconductors, materials, and packaging: the PRM &#174; (Pre-Regulator Module), a non-isolated buck-boost regulator; the BCM &#174; (Bus Converter Module), an isolated, fixed ratio intermediate bus voltage converter; and the VTM &#174; (Voltage Transformation Module), an isolated current multiplier (i.e., voltage converter). The VTM and BCM utilize on our Sine Amplitude Converter &#153; switching topology, a patented fixed-frequency implementation of zero current / zero voltage soft switching, while the PRM is based on our proprietary implementation of zero voltage soft switching (&#147;ZVS&#148;), which is optimized for buck-boost voltage regulation. All three products incorporate technologies for which we have been issued patents or have patent applications pending. 

&#160;

Beginning in 2011, we began to shift our strategic focus toward higher-volume opportunities with global OEMs and their contract manufacturers, as FPA and VI Chip modules offered superior power density, conversion efficiency, and thermal management characteristics for board-based, rack-mounted point-of-load applications, notably for microprocessors requiring tightly regulated high currents. FPA and our first-generation VI Chip modules were adopted by customers for use in demanding applications, most notably supercomputing, sophisticated test instrumentation, and defense electronics. However, broader adoption was inhibited by cost considerations and, to a lesser extent, a narrow product range. 

In response, we undertook development of a substantially improved product platform, which we introduced in 2013. Our &#147;ChiP&#148; platform (ChiP is an acronym for &#147;Converter housed in Package &#153; &#148;) specifically was designed to be a scalable, leveragable module format with lower manufacturing costs. ChiPs are offered in the same functional families as the earlier VI Chip modules, using the same advanced switching topologies, but, because of the format&#146;s design flexibility and improved manufacturability, we are able to offer much broader ranges of performance specifications within existing and new functional families. Because ChiPs were designed to be manufactured with lower costs, we are able to profitably sell ChiPs and ChiP-based solutions at competitive prices, on a cents-per-watt basis, comparable to prices of alternative commodity products. While our first-generation VI Chip modules were designed to facilitate FPA implementations, ChiP modules support all known power distribution architectures, including FPA, thereby expanding our addressable market opportunity (i.e., the range of customer applications across which our products can be used). 

At the same time, our Picor subsidiary undertook development of a high-performance family of point-of-load regulators, in &#147;SiP&#148; (System in Package LGA package) format, to be integrated into our expanded product portfolio, truly enabling comprehensive power management solutions to point(s)-of-load. These Cool-Power &#174; point-of-load regulators have been designed to meet the requirements of high-volume OEMs for cost-effectiveness, design flexibility, and high performance. 

In 2014, we introduced the &#147;VIA&#148; packaging concept (VIA is an acronym for &#147;Vicor Integrated Adaptor &#153; &#148;), a rugged, double-sided package for ChiP modules integrating complementary components, circuitry, and superior thermal management. The VIA package provides customers an advanced, turn-key solution for their demanding power needs, cost-effectively accelerating design cycles and time-to-market, while providing superior power density. The VIA package is particularly differentiated by the flexibility it provides designers, as it offers substantial thermal advantages and its form factor allows a broad range of installation options. We consider the VIA package to be strategically important, as it has been designed to be used in the widest range of power system architectures and applications, as well as serving as the packaging platform for our line of ChiP-based AC-DC front end converters, a critical element of our comprehensive product portfolio enabling highly-differentiated power management solutions from the AC or DC source to the point(s)-of-load. The VIA package enables us to target applications ranging from those addressed by our legacy brick products to the most challenging emerging applications. 

With the introduction of innovative new products, we began executing a transitional go-to-market strategy based on our Power Component Design Methodology, exploiting our historical strengths, while addressing both the realities of today&#146;s power conversion marketplace and our vision of its long-term direction. This strategy involves maintaining a profitable legacy business in bricks and brick-based system solutions, while investing in and transitioning to a new, advanced product portfolio based largely on the ChiP platform, targeting high growth opportunities. 

Today, we target well-defined applications for which the high conversion efficiency and high power density of our products are well suited within the following industrial and military market segments: aerospace and aviation; defense electronics; enterprise and high performance computing (including large scale datacenters); industrial automation, instrumentation, and test equipment; medical diagnostics; telecommunications and network equipment and infrastructure; and vehicles and transportation infrastructure. With our new, advanced products, we also are pursuing opportunities in emerging market segments, including: hybrid and electric 

&#160;

vehicles; commercial solid state lighting; and 380 volt DC-based facility infrastructure (also referred to as &#147;HVDC&#148; (for high voltage DC distribution) or &#147;micro-grids&#148;). 

Our competitive positioning has been, and will continue to be, supported by our long-standing commitment to research and development of power conversion technologies, advanced packaging and manufacturing, and innovative approaches to solving customer problems. We incurred approximately $41,472,000, $41,479,000, and $39,848,000 in research and development expenses in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively, representing approximately 18.8%, 18.4%, and 20.0% of revenues in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. 

As stated, our strategy involves maintaining high levels of customer engagement and support, which has resulted in significant expansion of our sales and application engineering infrastructure over historical levels, notably in high growth regions of the world such as China, Korea, and India. We incurred approximately $37,336,000, $38,056,000, and $35,478,000 in marketing and sales expenses in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively, representing approximately 17.0%, 16.9%, and 17.8% of revenues in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. 

We intend to maintain spending in support of research and development and marketing and sales at levels, on an absolute basis, consistent with prior periods. If we successfully execute our strategy, we believe our revenue should increase and, if so, the percentages of revenue represented by spending on research and development and marketing and sales should decline. 

Competition 

Despite significant consolidation, the growth of large-scale, low-cost competitors, and increased application overlap with vendors of solutions based on semiconductors and discrete components, the global merchant market for AC-DC and DC-DC power conversion solutions remains fragmented, with over 1,000 merchant vendors. The market is made up of many large, diversified manufacturers, as well as many smaller manufacturers focused on specialized products or narrowly defined market segments or geographies. The overall market, including those segments in which we compete, is characterized by rapid commoditization and intense price competition. 

Although numerous third party industry studies estimate the total global merchant market for AC-DC and DC-DC switching power supplies to exceed $20 billion of annual revenue, representing approximately two-thirds of the total annual consumption of switching power supplies (i.e., the sum of merchant and captive volumes consumed), the Company competes in smaller, well-defined industrial and military market segments. We believe AC-DC power supplies represent more than 85% of the total merchant market, reflecting a wide range of battery charging applications, primarily in the consumer, mobile device, and office computing segments (commodity segments in which we do not compete, together representing more than 50% of the total merchant market). Based on our own assessment of the segments in which we do compete, we estimate our aggregate addressable market opportunity within the AC-DC portion of the merchant market approaches $1 billion annually, while we estimate our aggregate addressable market opportunity within the DC-DC portion of the merchant market exceeds $3 billion annually. 

Despite our relative position in the overall merchant market, our small historical presence in the AC-DC portion of the merchant market, and the competitive presence of numerous, far larger vendors in the market segments we serve, we believe we are consistently among the largest volume vendors of solutions for the conversion, regulation, and control of DC-DC current, particularly in the market segments we serve. However, numerous competitors in these market segments have significantly greater financial and marketing resources and longer operating histories than we do. 

The competitive characteristics of market segments we serve with our transitional go-to-market strategy may vary. Generally, competition is based on product price, product performance, design flexibility (i.e., ease of use), and product availability. We seek to position ourselves with customers across all market segments served in 

&#160;

a manner that reduces our vulnerability to commoditization. As we shift our strategy to focus more on higher volume OEM opportunities, we are emphasizing what we believe are our sustainable competitive advantages: the differentiation of our products&#146; superior performance and power densities; a compelling value proposition based on lower total cost of ownership enabled by superior power conversion efficiencies; and the advantageous design flexibility enabled by our products and tools. The BBU, given its history, continues to compete on the basis of differentiated responsiveness to individual customer requirements enabled by our mass customization capabilities, largely with brick DC-DC converters. However, the BBU is pursuing opportunities for which our new products are appropriate, particularly with VIA packaged ChiPs. Our VI Chip and Picor subsidiaries, given our focus on higher-volume OEM opportunities with our new, innovative products, seek to build customer awareness and acceptance of our products and value propositions through the high levels of customer engagement and support described above. VI Chip and Picor are pursuing applications with these OEMs and their contract manufacturers in market segments for which the advantages of our new products are most compelling. In particular, we are marketing FPA, enabled by our new products, as an alternative to IBA and other distributed architectures, primarily in enterprise computing (notably large-scale datacenters). A complement to this customer-specific effort is the ongoing development of collaborative relationships with influential suppliers to our OEM customers. 

Our Products 

Reflecting our Power Component Design Methodology, we offer a comprehensive range of individual, highly integrated building blocks enabling design of a power system specific to a customer&#146;s needs. Since introducing and popularizing the encapsulated brick package format during the 1980s, our product focus has been on high performance DC-DC switching converters providing the transformation, regulation, isolation, filtering, and/or input protection necessary to power and protect sophisticated electronic loads. With the development of FPA, VI Chip modules, Picor point-of-load regulators, and, most recently, ChiP modules and the VIA packaging platform, we believe we offer the most advanced range of high-performance power components in the industry. A secondary and highly complementary product strategy has been to vertically integrate our component-level building blocks into complete power systems representing turnkey AC-DC and DC-DC solutions for our customers&#146; power needs. 

Reflecting our history and direction, we broadly categorize our products as either &#147;legacy&#148; or &#147;advanced&#148;, generally based on design, performance, and form factor considerations, as well as the range of applications for which the products are appropriate. 

Legacy Products 

The following product groups include those that historically generated the majority of our revenue. Some of our brick product lines have been in production for over a decade, reflecting the long-established relationships we have with many customers and the long-standing suitability of our products to their demanding applications. Their generally long lifecycles and well-established share of targeted market segments provide the competitive foundation and organizational resources for our transitional go-to-market strategy. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Bricks (Modular DC-DC Converters and Complementary Components) We offer brick modules as DC-DC converters, as well as complementary components providing AC line rectification, input filtering, power factor correction, and transient protection. All of our brick modules are encapsulated with a dielectric, thermally-conductive material, thereby providing electrical insulation, thermal conductivity, and environmental protection of the electronic circuitry. These products are well-established as important, reliable elements of conventional power systems architectures. 

The BBU currently offers seven families of high power density, component-level DC-DC converters, representing the broadest selection of DC-DC converter modules in the industry: the VI-200 &#153; , VI-

&#160;

J00 &#153; , MI-200 &#153; , MI-J00 &#153; , and the FasTrak &#153; module line, our highest volume products, made up of the Maxi, Mini, and Micro product families. All of our DC-DC converters are based on our proprietary approach to resonant soft switching, enabling high efficiencies and power densities. Wide ranges of input voltage (from nine to 425 volts), output voltages (from two to 54 volts), and output power (up to 600 watts) are offered, allowing end users to select components appropriate to their individual applications. The products differ in temperature grades, maximum power ratings, performance characteristics, pin configuration, and, in certain cases, characteristics specific to the targeted market. Brick DC-DC converters are offered in sizes, depending on family, ranging from 116.9 x 61.0 x 12.7 mm (full brick), to 57.9 x 61.0 x 12.7 mm (half brick), to 57.9 x 36.8 x 12.7 mm (quarter brick). 

Products from our broad line of complementary components are used to condition and/or filter the input and output voltages of the brick DC-DC converter. Generally, these components address customer requirements at the AC current source, upstream from our DC-DC converters, providing rectification of the AC current, input filtering, inrush limiting, and transient protection. An example of such a complementary product is our HAM &#153; (Harmonic Attenuator Module), a front end providing power factor correction. The HAM utilizes a proprietary zero current switching boost converter, allowing it to provide output power of up to 675 watts and DC output voltage of 365 volts. 

We also offer numerous accessories (for example, base plates and heat sinks) to meet customer requirements. 

These products are generally targeted at applications requiring high performance and reliability in the following market segments: aerospace and aviation; defense electronics; industrial automation, instrumentation, and test equipment; medical diagnostics; telecommunications infrastructure; and vehicles and transportation infrastructure. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Open-Frame Intermediate Bus Converters We offer an extensive line of open-frame (i.e., not encapsulated) intermediate bus converters (&#147;IBCs&#148;) for implementation of multi-stage power conversion. These devices utilize the same Sine Amplitude Converter switching topology utilized in our VTM and BCM modules in the VI Chip and ChiP formats. These low profile, isolated, fixed-ratio IBCs conform to industry standard quarter-brick and eighth-brick sizes, but offer increased capabilities and exceptional performance. 

These devices typically are used in telecommunications and networking equipment applications. Because our IBCs represent pin compatible upgrades for existing designs, a customer, for example, can replace a competitor&#146;s quarter-brick unit with our eighth-brick converter, using half the available space, while meaningfully improving system performance. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Cool-Power High Density ZVS DC-DC Converters We offer a family of isolated DC-DC converters delivering up to 60 watts in a very small (22 x 16.5 x 6.7 mm ) surface-mount package. Because these small devices are packaged in the VI Chip over-molded package, they are able to withstand harsh environments in applications for which space is limited and light weight is advantageous (e.g., aerospace, aviation, and defense electronics). These high density converter modules are offered in three input voltages: 48 volt nominal for communication applications; 28 volt nominal for rugged high temperature or military applications; and 24 volt nominal for industrial applications. 

Cool-Power converters utilize our proprietary zero voltage soft switching topology (&#147;ZVS&#148;) to achieve high-switching frequencies enabling best-in-class power density, while reducing input and output filtering requirements. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Configurable Products Utilizing our modular brick components to drive system function, we offer numerous configurable product families that provide complete power solutions configured to a customer&#146;s specific needs, often 

&#160;

with multiple voltage outputs. These near-custom products exploit the benefits and flexibility of our modular approach to offer higher performance, higher power densities, lower costs, and faster delivery than many competitive offerings. These AC-DC and DC-DC configurable products are designed, developed, and manufactured by the BBU and, for the Japanese market, VJCL. 

Our highest volume configurable product, the FlatPAC &#153; , is representative of our approach to integrating our power components to create high-performance solutions. FlatPACs, available in thousands of configurations in three package variants based on the number of DC output voltages, are complete, conductively-cooled AC-DC conversion solutions comprised of our VI-200 DC-DC converter modules and our complementary components, described above, providing rectification and filtering of the AC input voltage. 

Our configurable products typically are used in a range of CPA and distributed power architecture implementations in industrial and transportation applications, as well as medical instrumentation. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Custom Power Systems Certain customers rely on us to design, develop, and manufacture custom power systems to meet performance and/or form factor requirements that cannot be met with off-the-shelf system solutions. These low-volume, high value-add products frequently are designed to function reliably in the harsh environments associated with aerospace, aviation, and defense applications, but also are used in applications ranging from industrial equipment to medical instrumentation. By utilizing our modular components to drive system function, we have been able to meet such customers&#146; needs with reliable, high power density, turnkey solutions. 

Advanced Products 

The following product groups include those that reflect our vision of the direction of the market segments we serve with our Power Component Design Methodology. Many of these products are targeted toward FPA implementations, but our more recently introduced products are suitable for other distributed architectures. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; ChiPs (Modular Power Components) In 2013, our VI Chip Corporation subsidiary introduced the ChiP platform, designed to be a scalable, leveragable module format with lower manufacturing costs. We believe the ChiP platform establishes best-in-class standards for a new generation of scalable power modules, while expanding our capability range and, in turn, our addressable market opportunity. Combining advanced magnetic structures, proprietary power semiconductors, and proprietary microcontrollers in a high density interconnect substrate, the ChiP delivers superior thermal management characteristics, allowing customers to achieve low cost power system solutions with previously unattainable system efficiency, size, and weight. ChiP modules also have lower manufacturing costs than our original VI Chips, thereby allowing us to offer highly differentiated products, not only with superior total cost of ownership over time, but at attractive initial price points. Our goal is to offer ChiP modules and solutions on a cents per watt basis near or equivalent to the prices of competitive product offerings, thereby presenting customers with a compelling value proposition. 

ChiPs are produced in the same functional families as our earlier VI Chip FPA modules (i.e., PRM, BCM, and VTM), but today we offer five package sizes ranging from 13 by 23 mm to 61 by 23 mm. We currently offer over 100 specific ChiP module variants, reflecting the multiple configurations, based on dimensions, lead formats, and performance specifications, enabled by the flexible module format. During 2015, we accelerated our introduction of ChiP modules, adding new products and additional variants within the product families. During the year, we introduced 36 new ChiP modules, all of which are available for purchase. Our unprecedented pace of ChiP product development is evidenced further by our completion during 2015 of over 60 additional base and derivative designs that have not yet been released for sale. Based on our current design and development activities, we 

&#160;

anticipate, in 2016, additional expansion of the range of package sizes, board or chassis mounting alternatives, and performance characteristics of our ChiP product offerings. 

Notably, in 2015, we introduced more than two dozen new DCM &#174; (Direct Current Module) variants in ChiP format, in commercial and military grades. We currently offer the ChiP DCM in approximately 45 commercial and military variants in either a 4623 (i.e., 46 x 23 mm) package, capable of up to 600 watts, or a 3623 package, capable of up to 320 watts. ChiP DCMs are offered with nominal input voltages of 24, 28, 48, 270, 290, and 300 volts and nominal output voltages of 48, 36, 28, 24, 15, 12, and 5 volts. 

These isolated DC-DC converters are an important element of our competitive positioning. Given their function and form factor, ChiP DCMs should be very familiar to customers currently purchasing our brick DC-DC converters. In addition, the DCM, utilizing our most recent advances in ZVS soft switching and thermal management, offers enhanced performance compared to our legacy bricks. Reflecting our Power Component Design Methodology, DCMs can be integrated easily into complete power management solutions using our complementary components. The flexibility of the ChiP DCM design also allows a designer to array up to eight modules in parallel, without performance derating or the need for additional circuitry. When configured in this manner, a designer can implement a highly efficient conversion solution of up to 4.8 kilowatts, optimized for size and weight. 

Also in 2015, we expanded our ChiP BCM family of isolated, fixed ratio bus converters. We offer a low voltage family of ChiP BCMs for board-level IBA implementations and a high voltage family for voltage conversion, either individually or in arrays, in HVDC micro-grid applications (e.g., datacenters). Both families are configured in our 6123 ChiP package and provide peak conversion efficiencies up to 97.9%. The low voltage family accepts input voltages from 36 to 60 volts and generates output voltages from 2.4 to 55 volts, with power up to 1.95 kilowatts. The high voltage family accepts input voltages from 330 to 365 volts (or alternatively, 260 to 410 volts) and generates output voltages from 8.1 to 51.3 volts, with power up to 1.75 kilowatts. We believe ChiP BCMs, with power densities of up to 2,750 W/in 3 , deliver the highest efficiency and highest density of any bus converters available. All of our bus converters utilize our Sine Amplitude Converter switching topology, which delivers unmatched conversion efficiency and power density, with low noise and fast speed (i.e., transient response). In addition, the low AC impedance of our bus converter designs enables bulk capacitance, normally located at the input of a point-of-load regulator, to be placed at the high voltage input to our BCM, thereby reducing the bulk capacitance required, while saving board area and system cost. With the wide range of ChiP BCMs we offer, complemented by our expanding offerings of ChiP and SiP point-of-load regulators, we believe we are well-positioned to expand our share of market segments in which IBA implementations are preferred. We also believe we are well-positioned with these products to establish a leadership position in the emerging HVDC market segment. 

Our family of NBM &#153; bidirectional bus converter modules, a non-isolated BCM derivative introduced in 2015, is representative of the platform leverage afforded by the ChiP concept. Bidirectional power transfer capability is attractive in applications employing batteries and battery chargers, as it allows for less circuitry and management overhead. NBMs enable more efficient transmission of power from low voltage sources to remote, low voltage loads by means of a higher voltage intermediate bus, providing voltage boost (i.e., step-up) and voltage buck (i.e., step-down) at each end of the bus. We are targeting emerging applications in hybrid vehicles, as our 6123 NBM provides up 2.4 kilowatts of power, up to 98.3% operating efficiency, and market-leading power density of up to 3,532 W/in3, making it ideal for space constrained applications in which isolation is managed at the system level (as is the case in hybrid vehicles). Given our expertise in 48 volt applications, we believe our NBM family is extremely well suited for the requirements of the proposed LV148 standard, which has been advanced by major European automotive OEMs in support of industry adoption of the higher efficiency 48 volt bus. 

ChiP modules are targeted at applications, regardless of the power distribution architecture, for which their high level of differentiation is appropriate. Across distributed power system architectures, ChiPs 

&#160;

are targeted at aerospace and aviation (e.g., for use in unmanned aerial vehicles, due to their small form factor and light weight); defense electronics (e.g., for use in airborne, seaborne, or field radar, due to their high power capabilities, conversion efficiencies, ruggedness, and reliability); industrial automation, instrumentation, and test equipment (e.g., for use in semiconductor testing, due to their power density and tight regulation); telecommunications and networking infrastructure (e.g., for use in pole-mounted small-cell base stations in urban environments, due to their form factor, reliability, and cost/performance profile); and vehicles (e.g., in hybrid electric vehicles, due to their form factor, light weight, differentiated performance, and cost/performance profile). As stated, we also are pursuing applications with OEMs and their contract manufacturers in market segments for which the advantages of ChiPs are most compelling. In particular, we are marketing FPA, enabled by our new products, as an alternative to IBA and other distributed architectures, primarily in enterprise computing (notably large-scale datacenters, for which we believe our PRM and VTM combination represents the smallest, most efficient 48 volt to microprocessor solution available). 

Our extensive product roadmap for ChiP modules includes the further expansion of product families, in terms of power levels, performance, and dimensions, military grade versions of several products, and the addition of various approaches to chassis and board mounting, all targeted at increasing our addressable market opportunity. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; VIAs (Vicor Integrated Adapter Package) In 2014, we introduced the VIA platform, a rugged, double-sided, copper-alloy package for ChiP modules, integrating complementary components, circuitry, and superior thermal management through conductive cooling. In 2015, we released to production our first VIA-based products and currently offer over 70 VIA packages for ChiP DCMs, BCMs, and PFMs. 

We consider the VIA platform to be important to our transitional go-to-market strategy, as it has been designed to enable the use of ChiP modules across the widest range of power system architectures and applications. It is an easy-to-use power management solution, providing customers an advanced, turn-key solution for their demanding power needs, cost-effectively accelerating design cycles and time-to-market, while providing superior power density. The VIA platform is particularly differentiated by the flexibility it provides designers, as it offers substantial thermal advantages and its form factor allows a broad range of installation options. In numerous applications, the package simplifies thermal design considerations and, in some instances, eliminates the need for a fan for convection cooling, improving overall system reliability and further minimizing the power system footprint. Offered in board and chassis mount configurations, all VIA packages have a vertical dimension of 9.3 mm and a width of 35.5 mm, and, depending on the packaged ChiP module and its functionality, range in length from 72.0 to 141.4 mm. 

The VIA platform facilitates our latest AC front-end solution, based on the ChiP PFM &#174; (Power Factor Module). The VIA PFM represents a significant improvement over our legacy front-end solutions, thereby enhancing our positioning as a supplier of highly-differentiated power management solutions from the AC source to the point(s) of load. The VIA PFM achieves a market-leading power density of 127 W/in&#179;, supplying an isolated DC output of either 24 or 48 volts, at up to 400 watts, from a universal AC input. It operates with active power factor correction at 93% peak conversion efficiency, which is an unprecedented level for an AC-DC converter of this size and power density. Combining the VIA PFM with our small AIM &#153; (&#147;AC Input Module&#148;), which provides AC rectification, filtering, transient protection, and inrush limiting capabilities, creates a high-performance AC-DC front-end solution with an unmatched size profile. This solution is especially well-suited for emerging applications with size constraints, including small-cell base stations and commercial LED lighting. 

The VIA platform also facilitates the VIA DCM, which is an important product for executing our strategic transition. We currently offer seven variants of the VIA DCM. The product family integrates filtering, output voltage regulation, circuitry protection, and a control interface, giving the VIA DCM the function of a conventional brick DC-DC converter, while offering higher conversion efficiency, 

&#160;

superior power density, and the design flexibility described above. As such, we are positioning the VIA DCM as a successor to our legacy brick DC-DC converters, notably in advanced, challenging applications. However, the VIA DCM also is positioned as an innovative, high-performance element of our Power Component Design Methodology, as it has been designed to be integrated with our other products to facilitate design of comprehensive power system solutions. 

In 2015, we introduced a High Voltage VIA BCM, for use in HVDC distribution applications. As with the VIA PFM, this product is differentiated by its small size, very low profile, and thermal advantages, which provide substantial design flexibility. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Cool-Power &#174; ZVS Modules (System-in-Package Point-of-Load Regulators) First introduced in 2012 by our Picor Corporation subsidiary, the Cool-Power brand of non-isolated, point-of-load regulators currently consists of 31 variants of buck (i.e., the device steps down voltage) regulators, four of which were introduced in 2015, and three variants of buck-boost (i.e., the device lowers or increases voltage) regulators, all of which were introduced in 2015. 

We believe Cool-Power buck regulators provide best in class conversion efficiency (up to 98%), allowing customers to deploy more efficient designs, regardless of power system architecture, based on the compatibility of these point-of-load regulators with higher, more efficient input voltages. Operating from nominal input voltages of 12, 24, or 48 volts, these regulators are optimized for applications requiring tight point-of-load regulation, such as computer and video processors, delivering the highest power density possible at an attractive cost. 

The high conversion efficiency of our Cool-Power regulators is enabled by the high switching frequencies of our proprietary ZVS topology, which minimizes switching losses, while maximizing dynamic response to line and load transients. Along with ZVS control circuitry, the advanced design of Cool-Power regulators incorporates proprietary sampled feedback control and proprietary power semiconductors, all within a high-density, surface-mount package. The low noise of our ZVS approach also reduces the size of external filtering components, thereby improving overall power density. 

Cool-Power regulators are competitively well-positioned to address market trends toward higher required conversion efficiencies and higher currents at the point-of-load. The recent addition of buck-boost variants expands our capabilities to include loads powered by batteries, which are subject to varying voltage delivery over their discharge cycle. We believe these products will be an important contributor to our long-term success, as they represent a meaningful element of our Power Component Design Methodology, enabling comprehensive, highly integrated solutions for FPA and other distributed architectural implementations, fulfilling our strategic commitment to offering integrated solutions all the way to the point-of-load. Our success to date with these products has frequently been when they have been part of an integrated FPA solution, delivering a tightly regulated voltage to a downstream VTM serving as a current multiplier, which in turn delivers low voltage, high amperage, regulated current to the point-of-load, typically a microprocessor. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Power Path Management Components Our Picor subsidiary offers a limited range of specialized components for circuit protection, all of which are characterized by small size, ease-of-use, and differentiated performance. The highest volume products are QuietPower &#174; filters for input filtering of electro-magnetic interference and output noise (i.e., ripple attenuation). Other products include: the Cool-Switch &#174; , a load-disconnect switch solution, which functions as a high-speed electronic circuit breaker; the Cool-Swap &#174; , a &#147;hot swap&#148; circuit breaker controller enabling safe system operation during circuit card insertion; and the Cool-ORing &#174; , a high-density, active ORing solution enabling accurate, fast detection and isolation of circuit faults, while significantly reducing power dissipation and eliminating the need for heat sinking. We also offer numerous families of discrete components, capacitors, and electronic and mechanical accessories, all compatible with our power components. 

&#160;

We consider these products to be a valuable complement to our Power Component Design Methodology, despite their relatively small sales volumes, as they enable customers, assisted by our application engineers, to source from Vicor their complete solution to power conversion and management. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; VI Chips (Modular Power Components) We continue to offer the first generation of VI Chip PRM, BCM, and VTM modules, in full (32.5 by 22.0 by 6.73 mm) and half (22.0 by 16.5 by 6.73 mm) sizes, targeting FPA implementations. These products remain compelling solutions for certain applications, notably in defense electronics, medical instrumentation, and test and measurement applications. 

We also offer a limited number of VI Chips in our &#147;VI Brick&#148; packaging, which incorporates complementary circuitry and offers superior thermal characteristics, while facilitating a range of board mounting alternatives. 

With the introduction of ChiPs and VIA packaging, we anticipate our sales of the first generation of VI Chips and VI Bricks will be limited to shipments to existing customers during the life cycles of the applications into which these products have been designed. We expect the life cycles of many of these applications may continue for several years. 

Patents and Intellectual Property 

An important element of our strategy is to protect our competitive leadership with domestic and foreign patents and patent applications that cover our products and much of their enabling technologies. We believe our competitive leadership is further protected by proprietary trade secrets associated with our use of certain components and materials of our own design, as well as our significant experience with manufacturing, packaging, and testing these complex devices. 

We believe our patents afford advantages by building fundamental and multilayered barriers to competitive encroachment upon key features and performance benefits of our principal product families. Our patents cover the fundamental switching topologies used to achieve the performance attributes of our converter product lines; converter array architectures; product packaging design; product construction; high frequency magnetic structures; as well as automated equipment and methods for circuit and product assembly. 

In the United States, as of December 31, 2015, we have been issued 93 total patents, which expire between 2016 and 2034. We also have a number of patent applications pending in the United States and certain countries of Europe and Asia. We have vigorously protected our rights under these patents and will continue to do so. Although we believe patents are an effective way of protecting our technology, there can be no assurances our patents will prove to be enforceable in any given jurisdiction. 

In addition to generating revenue from product sales, we seek to license our intellectual property. In granting licenses, we generally retain the right to use our patented technologies and manufacture and sell our products in all licensed geographic areas and fields of use. Licenses are granted and administered through our wholly-owned subsidiary, VLT, Inc., which is the assignee for our patents that may be subject to licensing. Revenues from licensing arrangements have not exceeded 10% of our consolidated revenues in any of the last three fiscal years. 

Customers and Backlog 

The applications in which our products are used are in the higher-performance, higher-power segments of the market segments we serve. The BBU has customers concentrated in aerospace and aviation, defense electronics, industrial automation and equipment, medical diagnostics, rail transportation, and test and measurement instrumentation. VI Chip and Picor have customers concentrated in the datacenter and 

&#160;

supercomputer segments of the computing market, although they also target applications in aerospace and aviation, defense electronics, electric and hybrid vehicles, instrumentation and test equipment, networking equipment, and solid state lighting. With our strategic emphasis on larger, high-volume customers, we expect to experience a greater concentration of sales among relatively fewer customers. 

For the year ended December 31, 2015, one customer, NuPower Electronic, Ltd., accounted for approximately 16.2% of net revenues, and our five largest customers represented approximately 33.4% of net revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2014, one customer (NuPower Electronic, Ltd.) accounted for approximately 14.7% of net revenues, and our five largest customers represented approximately 32.6% of net revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2013, two customers (NuPower Electronic, Ltd. and Tech-Front Computer, Ltd.) accounted for approximately 10.9% and 10.1% of net revenues, respectively, and our five largest customers represented approximately 29.2% of net revenues. 

International revenues, as a percentage of total revenues, were approximately 59.6%, 60.5%, and 59.5% in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. Net revenues from customers in Hong Kong and China accounted for approximately 21.8% and 12.4%, respectively, of total net revenues in 2015, approximately 20.2% and 12.0%, respectively, of total net revenues in 2014 and approximately 16.2% and 11.3%, respectively, of total net revenues in 2013. International sales have increased from historical levels primarily due to higher volumes of shipments to foreign contract manufacturers utilized by domestic and international OEMs. As we have substantially expanded our sales and customer support activities and resources internationally, particularly in Asia, we expect international sales to continue to increase as a percentage of total revenue. 

As of December 31, 2015, we had a backlog of approximately $39,073,000, compared to $54,249,000 as of December 31, 2014. Backlog, as presented here, consists of orders for products for which shipment is scheduled within the following 12 months, subject to normal customer cancellation policies. A portion of our revenue in any quarter is, and will continue to be, derived from orders booked and shipped in the same quarter. Over the past two years, the portion of sales booked and shipped in the same quarter has represented less than two-fifths of our quarterly revenue, as we typically only build products to customer specifications upon receipt of a purchase order (i.e., we typically do not maintain significant inventories of finished goods for the BBU and VI Chip). Products sold by the BBU may have a lead time (i.e., the period between receipt of an order and shipment of the product) of up to six weeks, although the average lead time for 2015 was less than four weeks. Products sold by VI Chip typically have a lead time in excess of eight weeks, reflecting higher efficiencies associated with our ChiP modules. Lead times for the BBU and VI Chip may shorten (and have shortened) during periods of sustained volume. Picor, given its fabless model, builds inventories based on expected customer demand and orders from stocking distribution partners. As such, the portion of sales booked and shipped in the same quarter can vary considerably depending on the relative volumes of BBU, VI Chip, and Picor products booked within the quarter. 

Sales and Marketing 

We reach and serve customers through several channels: a direct sales force world-wide; a network of independent sales representative organizations in North America and South America; independent non-stocking distributors in Europe and Asia; and three stocking distributors, Digi-Key Corporation, Future Electronics Incorporated, and Mouser Electronics, Inc. These channels are supported by regional TSCs, each offering application engineering and sales support for customers and our channel partners. Domestic TSCs are located in: Andover, Massachusetts; Lombard, Illinois; and Santa Clara, California. International TSCs are located in: Hong Kong, China; Shanghai, China; Munich, Germany; Bangalore, India; Milan, Italy; Taipei, Taiwan (Republic of China); Seoul, South Korea; and Camberley, United Kingdom. 

Because of the technically complex nature of our products and the applications they address, we maintain an extensive staff of Field Applications Engineers to support our own sales and customer support activities, as well as those of our channel partners. Field Application Engineers, based in our TSCs, provide direct technical support worldwide by reviewing new applications and technical matters with existing and potential customers, as well as 

&#160;

our channel partners. Product Line Engineers, located in our Andover headquarters, support Field Application Engineers assigned to all of our TSCs. 

We utilize an in-house distributor support initiative, Vicor Express&#153;, to support our regional distributors in the European Union and small, low volume customers not served by these regional distributors. Vicor Express is focused on new customer lead generation through marketing in local languages, support of small-volume customers targeted for transition to distributors as volumes increase, and close coordination of distributor activities with these customers. Vicor Express customers place orders, denominated in Euros or Pounds Sterling, with Vicor B.V., which serves as importer of record for direct shipments by Vicor from Andover, Massachusetts, to customers in the European Union. European TSCs participating in the Vicor Express initiative do not accept purchase orders from any customers and do not record any revenue associated with shipments from Vicor to Vicor B.V. 

Vicor also reaches customers via our electronic commerce capability through our website, www.vicorpower.com. Registered customers in the United States, Canada, and certain European countries are able to purchase prototype quantities of selected products online. Our Internet-based resources are an important element of our efforts to interact and support customers. Within our website, Vicor PowerBench TM is a workspace of tools and references allowing engineers to select, architect, and implement power systems using Vicor&#146;s products. During 2015, we continued to enhance our highly differentiated Whiteboard TM tool, which allows users to configure and analyze their own power system designs or those from an extensive library of designs addressing a wide range of applications. Users can modify the operating condition for each component of their design to match the intended application and perform efficiency and loss analysis of individual components and the full power system. We are aggressively expanding the range and capabilities of engineering tools we make available online to customers and prospective customers. 

We generally sell our products on the basis of our standard terms and conditions, and we most commonly warrant our products for a period of two years. In a limited number of circumstances, we have entered into supply contracts with certain high-volume customers calling for extended warranty terms. With our distribution partners, we also enter into contracts. With our stocking distributors, these contracts provide for our product warranties to transfer to the end customer upon final sale of our product(s) by the stocking distributor. 

Manufacturing, Quality Assurance, and Supply Chain Management 

Our BBU and VI Chip manufacturing facilities are co-located in Andover, Massachusetts, where we are headquartered. Picor, given its fabless model, outsources manufacturing, packaging, and testing of its products under contract to partners in the United States and Asia. 

Our primary manufacturing processes consist of assembly of electronic components onto printed circuit boards; automatic testing of components; wave, reflow and infrared soldering of assembled components; encapsulation or over-molding of converter subassemblies and assemblies; final environmental stress screening of certain products; and product inspection and testing using automated equipment. These processes are largely automated, but their labor components require relatively high levels of skill and training. 

We pursue a manufacturing strategy based upon the continuous improvement of product quality, volume throughput, and reduced manufacturing costs. Product quality and reliability are critical to our success and, as such, we emphasize quality and reliability in our design and manufacturing activities. We follow industry best practices in manufacturing and are compliant with ISO 9001 certification standards (as set forth by the International Organization for Standardization). Our quality assurance practices include rigorous testing and, as necessary, burn-in and temperature cycling (i.e., extended operation of a product to confirm performance) of our products using automated equipment. 

We continue to make investments in automated manufacturing equipment, particularly for our ChiP modules and VIA packaging platforms. Based on current estimates of ChiP and VIA manufacturing volumes and 

&#160;

our capacity requirements, we do not expect to incur capital expenditures during 2016 materially higher than we incurred during recent years. 

Components and materials used in our products are purchased from a variety of domestic and international vendors. Most of the components are available from multiple sources, whether directly from suppliers or indirectly through distributors. In instances of single source items, we maintain levels of inventories we consider to be appropriate to enable meeting the delivery requirements of customers. Incoming components, assemblies, and other parts are subjected to several levels of inspection procedures, and we maintain robust data on our inventories in order to support our quality assurance procedures. Picor, given its fabless model, relies on a limited number of wafer foundries and providers of packaging and test services. Our proprietary switching controllers were designed by and are sourced through Picor, which relies on these wafer foundries and service providers for supply continuity and sufficiency of these critical semiconductor devices. 

See Note 17 &#151; Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements for certain financial information associated with the operations and manufacturing activities of our business segments. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 964 full time employees and 21 part time employees. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We believe our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Although there is strong demand for qualified personnel, we have not to date experienced difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient engineering and technical personnel to meet our needs (see Part I, Item 1A &#151; &#147;Risk Factors&#148;). 

Available Information 

We maintain a website with the address www.vicorpower.com and make available free of charge through this website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. We also make available on our website our Code of Business Conduct, as well as the charters for the Audit and Compensation Committees of our Board of Directors. 

While our website sets forth extensive information, including information regarding our products and the applications in which they may be used, such information is not a part of, nor incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K and shall not be deemed &#147;filed&#148; under the Exchange Act. 

&#160;

