 Item 1. Business 

Introduction 

Designing, producing and distributing high-value furniture for a diverse family of customers is a 66-year tradition at Virco Mfg. Corporation (&#8220;Virco&#8221; or the &#8220;Company&#8221;, or in the first person, &#8220;we&#8221;, &#8220;us&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221;). Virco was incorporated in California in February 1950, and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1984. Though Virco started as a local manufacturer of chairs and desks for Los Angeles-area schools, over the years, Virco has become the largest manufacturer and supplier of moveable educational furniture and equipment for the preschool through 12th grade market in the United States. The Company manufactures a wide assortment of products, including mobile tables, mobile storage equipment, desks, computer furniture, chairs, activity tables, folding chairs and folding tables. Additionally, Virco has worked with accomplished designers - such as Peter Glass, Richard Holbrook, and Bob Mills - to develop additional products for contemporary applications. These include the best-selling ZUMA Series; the recently introduced Analogy and Civitas furniture collections; Metaphor and Sage Series items for educational settings; and the wide-ranging Plateau Series. 

Along with serving customers in the education market - which in addition to preschool through 12th grade public and private schools includes: junior and community colleges; four-year colleges and universities; trade, technical and vocational schools - 

Virco is a leading furniture and equipment supplier for convention centers and arenas; the hospitality industry with respect to banquet and meeting facilities; government facilities at the federal, state, county and municipal levels; and places of worship. We also sell to wholesalers, distributors, traditional retailers and catalog retailers that serve these same markets. 

To meet the furniture and equipment needs of our customers, Virco leases a 560,000 sq. ft. office, manufacturing and warehousing facility located on 23.5 acres of land in Torrance, California; this facility includes our corporate headquarters, West Coast showroom, and our West Coast distribution operations. To complement our Torrance-based operations, Virco owns 100 acres of land in Conway, Arkansas, containing 1,200,000 sq. ft. of manufacturing, warehousing, and office space. With high-density storage systems, 70 dock doors dedicated to outbound freight, and substantial yard capacity to store and stage trailers, this facility supports Virco's ability to handle increased sales during our peak summer delivery season and enhances the efficiency with which orders are filled. Virco also operates two other facilities in Conway. The first is a 375,000 sq. ft. factory - acquired in 1954, and expanded and modernized in subsequent years - where a variety of operations take place, including the manufacture of fabricated steel components, chrome plating, and plastic injection-molding; components generated here are transferred to other facilities for assembly into finished goods. The second is a 175,000 sq. ft. manufacturing facility where compression-molded hard plastic components are fabricated and stored. 

New Products and Markets 

Because the product needs and preferences of our customers continue to evolve - and in response to competitive furniture and equipment offerings from domestic and offshore suppliers - Virco maintains an active new product development program. We've worked with accomplished designers - such as Peter Glass, Richard Holbrook, and Bob Mills - to introduce exciting furniture and equipment solutions for contemporary applications. Over the past three years, Virco has launched a substantial number of new products, including the following products. 

In 2015, Virco introduced the Analogy&#8482; classroom furniture collection. Designed for Virco by Peter Glass and Bob Mills, the affordable, ergonomically contoured Analogy line includes fixed-height 4-leg chairs, adjustable task chairs and lab stools, steel-frame rockers and a selection of 4-leg and sled-based chair desk combo units. New Agile Combo units - also released in 2013 - provide an appropriate level of mobility to effectively enhance in-class collaboration. Every Agile Combo model has a hooded, twin-wheel soft caster with a &#8220;sit-lock&#8221; compression-brake on each of its front legs. With this two-caster configuration, Agile Combos - unlike competing units with casters on all four legs - prevent students from &#8220;rolling around&#8221; disruptively while seated. Instead, when an instructor asks students to move their Agile Combos to facilitate a particular lesson plan, they can do so in an orderly manner by getting out of their seats and using the convenient hand-hold near the top of the Agile Combo backrest. For added stability when units aren&#8217;t being moved, the rear legs of Agile Combos have rubber-base swivel glides. Agile Combo models can be ordered with a ZUMA shell, a Sage&#8482; shell or an Analogy shell. Other 2014 product introductions included: a selection of ZUMA and Sage chairs with integral tubular steel arms; several new Parameter desks and workstations, including L-configuration units with curved-corner or notched-corner tops; and wheelchair-accessible ZBOOM single-student desks that support collaborative learning; mobile Textameter&#8482; instructor workstations; and elegant Civitas&#8482; chairs and stools with a contoured plywood seat and back. 

In 2016, not only did Virco expand on successful product lines such as TEXT and Sage Contract, but also introduced new seating, desks, and tables. N2&#8482; is the newest, comprehensive seating line geared toward the budget-conscious customers, and includes everything from stack and task chairs to combo units and lab stools. In an effort to broaden Virco&#8217;s reach into STEM&#8482; (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) based learning solutions, the Tetra Series was developed as a complete line of tables and desks that are suitable for environments ranging from computer labs to seminar training rooms. To round out Virco&#8217;s extensive offering of collaborative desks, the Molecule&#8482; is a unique shaped student desk that can be grouped with other Molecules in multiple configurations, or customized with numerous accessories and used as a stand-alone, single student desk. 

In 2016, to further support STEM and STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Art and Math) centered learning, Virco introduced Makerspace Tables. The Makerspace &#32; line offers a &#32; wide assortment of medium-duty tables designed specifically for the hands-on learning environment most commonly found in vocational classes, makerspace areas, and STEM / STEAM centered education. 

Available in a large selection of top sizes, the unique inset design allows the user to easily swap out to a new work surface when needed without completely disassembling or replacing the entire table. Surface options include a standard &#190;-inch laminate plywood core, or an unfinished, non-laminate, raw plywood work surface. To address the ongoing integration of technology in the classroom, Instructor Media Towers and Media Stations offer solutions for media storage and presentation. Virco&#8217;s Media Towers incorporate locking doors, adjustable and fixed shelves, file and box drawers, and fully integrated cable management. Optional accessories for the Instructor Media Towers include a Caster Kit, Lectern Top Assembly, and Shelf Kits. 

Media Stations attach to two different size desk options and come standard with a modesty panel as well as fully integrated cable management. 

Virco's flat metal forming and other production capabilities are further enhanced when combined with our Assemble-to-Ship (&#8220;ATS&#8221;) strategy, which allows for the manufacture and storage of common components during the portion of the year when demand for our product is lower which is then assembled to customer-specific combinations prior to shipment. The combination of flat metal forming and ATS enables Virco to offer various products - including an array of desks at different price points - that provide a variety of furniture solutions for customer applications in a wide range of environments. 

As of January 31, 2016, the Company's employment force was approximately 695, manufacturing its products in 1.1 million square feet of fabrication facilities and 1.2 million square feet of assembly and warehousing facilities in Torrance, California and Conway, Arkansas. Additionally, the Company's PlanSCAPE&#174; project management software allows its sales representatives to provide CAD layouts of classrooms, as well as classroom-by-classroom planning documents for the budgeting, acquisition and delivery of furniture, fixtures and equipment (&#8220;FF&#38;E&#8221;). 

In recent years, due to budgetary constraints, many schools reduced or eliminated central warehouses, janitorial services, and professional purchasing functions. As a result, fewer school districts administer their own bids, and are more likely to use regional, state, or national contracts. A shift to site-based management combined with reductions in professional purchasing personnel has increased the reliance of schools on suppliers that provide for a variety of needs from one source rather than administering different vendor relationships for each item. In response to these changes, the Company has expanded both the products and the services it provides to its educational customers. Now, in addition to buying furniture FOB Factory, customers can purchase furniture for delivery to warehouses and school sites, and can also purchase full-service furniture delivery that includes the delivery of the furniture in classrooms. Because the Company has been aggressively developing new furniture lines to enhance the range of products it manufactures - and by purchasing furniture and equipment from other companies for re-sale with Virco products - the Company is now able to provide &#8220;one-stop shopping&#8221; for all FF&#38;E needs in our educational market. 

The expansion of the Company's product line combined with the expansion of its services over the years has provided Virco with the ability to serve various markets including the education market (the Company's primary market), which is made up of public and private schools (preschool through 12th grade), junior and community colleges; four-year colleges and universities; and trade, technical and vocational schools. Virco also serves convention centers and arenas; the hospitality industry with respect to banquet and meeting facilities; government facilities at the federal, state, county and municipal levels; and places of worship. In addition, the Company also sells to wholesalers, distributors, traditional, internet and catalog retailers that serve these same markets. 

Manufacturing and Distribution 

Virco serves its customers through a well-trained, nationwide sales and support team. Virco's educational product line is marketed through an extensive direct sales force, as well as through a growing dealer network. In addition, Virco has a Corporate Sales Group to pursue wholesalers, mail order accounts and national chains where management believes that it is more efficient to have a single sales representative or group service such customers, as they tend to have needs that transcend the geographic boundaries established for Virco's local accounts. The Company also has an array of support services, including complete package solutions for the FF&#38;E line item on school budgets; computer-assisted layout planning; transportation planning; and product delivery, delivery, and repair. 

Another important element of Virco's business model is the Company's emphasis on developing and maintaining key manufacturing, assembly, distribution, and service capabilities. For example, Virco has developed competencies in several manufacturing processes that are important to the markets the Company serves, such as finishing systems, plastic molding, metal fabrication and woodworking. Virco's physical facilities are designed to support its ATS strategy. Warehouses have substantial staging areas combined with a large number of dock doors to support the seasonal peak in shipments during summer months. 

During the last decade, many furniture manufacturers closed their domestic manufacturing facilities and began importing increasing quantities of furniture from international sources. During this same period, Virco elected to significantly reduce its work force, but retain its domestic factory locations. The Company believes that its domestic manufacturing capabilities are a significant strength. The Company has effectively used product selection, color selection, and dependable execution of delivery to customers to enhance its market position. With increasing costs from international sources and increasing freight costs, our factories are cost-competitive for bulky educational furniture and equipment items. The Company's ATS strategy allows for low-cube component parts to be sourced globally, with fabrication of bulky welded steel frames, wood tops, and larger molded-plastic components to be performed locally. Domestic production of laminated wood tops and molded plastic enables the 

Company to market a color palette that cannot be matched in a short delivery window by imported finished goods. Domestic assembly allows the Company to use standard ATS components to assemble customer-specific product and color combinations shortly prior to delivery and installation. 

Finally, management continues to hone Virco's ability to finance, manufacture and warehouse furniture within the relatively narrow delivery window associated with the highly seasonal demand for education sales. In 2015 and 2016, approximately 50% of the Company's total sales were delivered in June, July, and August with an even higher portion of educational sales delivered in that period. Shipments of furniture during peak weeks in July and August can be six times greater than in the seasonally slow winter months. Virco's substantial warehouse space allows the Company to build adequate inventories to service this narrow delivery window for the education market. 

Principal Products 

Virco produces the broadest line of furniture for the K-12 market of any manufacturer in the United States. By supplementing products manufactured by Virco with products from other manufacturers, Virco provides a comprehensive product assortment that covers substantially all products and price points that are traditionally included on the FF&#38;E line item on a new school project or school budget. Virco also provides a variety of products for preschool markets and has recently developed products that are targeted for college, university, and corporate learning center environments. The Company has an ambitious and on-going product development program featuring products developed in-house as well as products developed with accomplished designers. The Company's primary furniture lines are constructed of tubular metal legs and frames, combined with wood and plastic tops, plastic seats and backs, upholstered seats and backs, and upholstered rigid polyethylene and polypropylene shells. Virco also has flat metal forming capabilities to enable the production of desks, returns, bookcases, filing cabinets, mobile pedestals and related items. 

Virco's principal manufactured products include: 

SEATING - The ergonomically supportive ZUMA&#174; line designed by Peter Glass and Bob Mills posted the highest initial-year new product sales total in the Company's history. In addition to fixed-height 4-leg chairs, the ZUMA line includes cantilever chairs; tablet arm chairs with a fixed or articulating work surface and a compact footprint; and steel-frame rockers. The ZUMAfrd&#8482; collection features Fortified Recycled Wood&#8482; hard plastic seats, backrests and work surfaces. ZUMAfrd products have up to 70% recycled content and are 98% recyclable. The Sage&#8482; line, originally designed to serve students in college, university and other adult education settings - and on high school campuses - now offers a 13&#8221; and a 15&#8221; 4-leg chair and a corresponding pair of cantilever chairs for younger or smaller students; there's also a selection of Sage rockers for K-12 applications and several tablet arm units. Selected adult-height Sage models can also now be ordered with a padded, upholstered seat. Other Virco seating choices include the Metaphor&#174; Series - an updated sequel to Virco's best-selling Classic Series&#8482; furniture with improvements in comfort, ergonomics, stackability, and manufacturing efficiencies - and the Telos&#174; Series, a wide-ranging product line with ergonomically contoured Fortified Recycled Wood components. The Sage Contract line is targeted for offices and reception areas, colleges, hospitality venues and other adult environments. Virco further expanded the Sage Contract line in 2015 with the addition of a mobile tablet-arm workstation that includes an integrated bookrack to further penetrate the higher education market. Civitas&#8482; chairs and stools are intended for foodservice, libraries, media centers, circulation areas, and related areas where people gather. Civitas frames offer several chair bucket styles and options including Zuma, Sage, Analogy, and molded plywood. Additional Virco seating alternatives range from 120, 121 and 122 Series stools to contoured I.Q.&#174; Series classroom chairs by Richard Holbrook; comfortable, attractive Virtuoso&#174; chairs by Charles Perry; and new Analogy&#8482; Series chairs by Peter Glass and Bob Mills. The N2 Series was designed by Virco and introduced in 2015 as a comprehensive, ergonomic seating line that specifically caters to the budget conscious consumer. Classic Series&#8482; stack chairs and Martest 21&#174; hard plastic seating models are popular choices in schools across America. Along with this range of seating, Virco offers folding chairs and upholstered stack chairs, as well as additional plastic stack chairs and upholstered ergonomic chairs. 

TABLES - Virco&#8217;s TEXT&#174; table collection for learning environments - designed by Peter Glass and Bob Mills- features heavy-gauge tubular steel and proven Virco construction for extended product life, and elliptical legs, swooping yokes and arched feet for exceptional elegance. Selected TEXT models can be equipped with a variety of technology-support and storage accessories. The 2015 introduction of the TEXT Tilt-Top Height Adjustable Table further expanded Virco&#8217;s reach into the seminar, training room, and higher education markets by enhancing the functionality and flexibility of the table while strengthening the Virco and TEXT brands. The all new Tetra&#8482; Series is a versatile collection of tables and student desks suitable for various environments. From classrooms to open-office spaces, the Tetra is simple enough to serve as an everyday workstation but can be customized to suit the needs of a fast paced computer lab or seminar training room. Lunada&#174; tables, combining Virco's popular Lunada bi-point bases with a selection of 20 top sizes, make great choices for seminar, conference and related settings. Designed for Virco by Peter Glass, Plateau&#174; tables bring exceptional versatility, sturdy construction and great styling to 

working and learning environments. For durable, easy-to-use lightweight folding tables, Virco's Core-a-Gator&#174; models are unsurpassed. When paired with attractive, durable Virco cafe tops, Lunada bases by Peter Glass provide eye-catching table solutions for hospitality settings. Civitas tops and bases provide excellent furniture solutions for casual spaces where people gather. Virco also carries traditional folding tables, CT Series tables with a hand crank mechanism for top height adjustment, activity tables and office tables, as well as the computer tables and mobile tables described below. Virco&#8217;s Makerspace tables are designed specifically for hands-on learning environments most commonly found in vocational classes, makerspace areas and STEM / STEAM centered education. 

COMPUTER FURNITURE - The TEXT and Tetra Series table collections described in the preceding paragraph provides an array of computer furniture choices for learning or business environments; Virco's Flip-Top Technology tables and HWT (Hinged Wire Trough) Technology tables also deliver popular computer furniture solutions. Future Access&#174; computer tables come with an integral wire management panel and all rectangular models have a smooth post-formed front and rear edge. Like our Future Access models, 8700 Series computer tables can be equipped with Virco's functional computing accessories, such as keyboard mouse trays, CPU holders and support columns for optional elevated shelves. In an effort to address the demand for collaborative solutions in a computer lab environment, Virco added the Quarter Round 8700 Series Computer Table that allows multiple tables to be grouped together while maintaining a technology based environment. The Plateau Office Solutions collection offers desks and workstations with technology-support capabilities, while the Plateau Library/Technology Solutions line has specialty tables and other products for computing applications. Virco now offers Instructor Media Stations and Towers that include several options for media storage and presentation. 

DESKS/CHAIR DESKS - From the ergonomic and collaborative-learning strengths of our best-selling ZUMA&#174; student desks to the continuing popularity of our traditional Classic Series&#8482; chair desks and combo units, Virco's wide-ranging furniture models can be found in thousands of America's schools. To expand on the popularity of the 785 Student Desk, Virco added a Collaborative Top work surface as an option on all 785 desk models, which facilitates convenient grouping of desks for break-out sessions and classroom collaboration. The Sage Contract saw the addition of an optional bookrack, which combined with the tablet arm and caster options, creates a complete mobile workstation for a variety of environments. The Molecule is a new student desk with a unique shaped collaborative work surface that can be used by a single student or grouped together with multiple Molecules to create various arrangements and group settings. Related products include an array of tablet arm units, new Agile Combo models and new Analogy&#8482; Series combo chair desks. Selected models are available with durable, colorfast Martest 21&#174; or Fortified Recycled Wood&#8482; hard plastic components. For teachers, principals and district administrators - and for business environments - Virco offers an extensive range of Parameter&#174; desks, returns and credenzas designed by Peter Glass and Bob Mills. Textameter&#8482; mobile workstations provide additional furniture choices for educators. 

ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE FURNITURE - In addition to the Plateau&#174; Office Solutions, Parameter&#174;, and Textameter&#8482; product lines, Virco manufactures a selection of desks, returns, bookcases and other items that employ the Company's flat metal forming capabilities. These products include 53 Series steel storage cabinets, an expanded range of 53 Series lateral files, and special versions of 543 and 546 Series desks with wire management capabilities. Other products range from 53 Series wardrobe tower cabinets and Parameter file credenzas to Parameter mobile pedestals and Plateau bookcases in popular 36&#8221; wide and 48&#8221; wide models that work in classroom settings and related educational environments as well as administrative offices. 

LABORATORY FURNITURE - For biology and chemistry classes, and other school- and college-based lab settings, Virco offers a variety of steel-based science tables. Virco manufactures the table bases of these items and equips them with specialty Chemsurf&#174; and epoxy resin tops. Virco's ZUMA&#174;, Sage&#8482;, Analogy&#8482;, N2, Telos&#174;, Metaphor&#174;, I.Q.&#174;, Classic Series&#8482;, and 3000 Series collections include pneumatically adjustable lab stools with high-range seat-height adjustment and a steel foot-ring. Virco also carries a selection of wood-frame science tables with Chemsurf and epoxy resin tops. 

MOBILE FURNITURE - Cafeterias are perfect venues for the ever-popular Virco mobile tables - including a selection of oval mobile tables with attached benches or stools - while classrooms benefit from the spacious storage capacity of Virco mobile cabinets; additional mobile cabinet models with a magnetic marker back are available. ADA compliant Mobile Bench &#38; Stool Tables were also introduced to the Virco line of mobile products in 2015 to expand on our wheelchair accessible solutions. An array of Virco product lines includes mobile chairs for school settings and offices. 

STORAGE EQUIPMENT - For moving selected Virco chairs and folding tables, the Company carries a wide range of handling and storage equipment. For our convention center, arena, and auditorium customers, Virco also manufactures stackable storage trucks that work with Virco upholstered stack chairs, folding chairs and folding tables. 

Virco's wide-ranging product selection includes hundreds of furniture models that are certified the Greenguard&#174; Children &#38; Schools Program for indoor air quality. In 2005 Virco's ZUMA and ZUMAfrd&#8482; products earned the distinction of being the first classroom furniture models to be certified by the Greenguard Children &#38; Schools Program, now known as Greenguard Gold certification. All of the models in the Company's most recently introduced product lines - including Analogy&#8482; furniture 

models and Textameter&#8482; instructor workstations - are Greenguard-certified. Along with Virco's leadership relative to Greenguard-certified furniture, the Company also introduced the classroom furniture industry's first Take-Back program in 2007, enabling qualifying schools, colleges, universities, and other organizations and customers to return selected out-of-service furniture components for recycling rather than sending these items to a landfill. 

In order to provide a comprehensive product offering for the education market, the Company supplements Virco-manufactured products with items purchased for re-sale, including wood and steel office furniture, early learning products for pre-school and kindergarten classrooms, science laboratory furniture, and library tables, chairs and equipment. Virco now offers customized, space-efficient workstations by Interior Concepts&#8482; for technology and language labs, media centers, computer classrooms, reception areas and offices. Interior Concepts is one of the many vendors with which the Company partners in order to effectively position Virco as the preferred one-stop furniture and equipment source for K-12 schools. None of the products from vendor partners accounted for more than 10% of consolidated revenues in 2016. 

To complement Virco's extensive selection of furniture and equipment, we offer customers a variety of valuable services in connection with the purchase of Virco products; revenues from these service levels are included in the purchase price of the furniture items. In addition to giving customers the option of purchasing Virco products and making their own delivery arrangements, Virco provides three levels of delivery service. When customers choose Standard Delivery - also known as tailgate delivery - the delivery driver is responsible for moving the customer's goods to the tailgate of the truck only; therefore, the customer must have personnel on hand to unload the truck. For additional charges Virco also offers Inside Delivery (no installation), or Full-Service Delivery (delivered and placed in the classroom). To assist customers involved with FF&#38;E purchases for new school construction projects or school renovations, Virco's PlanSCAPE&#174; service provides room-by-room computerized layout planning and full FF&#38;E project management. 

Customers 

Virco's major customers include educational institutions, convention centers and arenas, hospitality providers, government facilities, and places of worship. No customer accounted for more than 10% of Virco's consolidated revenues during 2016 . 

Raw Materials 

Virco purchases steel, aluminum, plastic, polyurethane, polyethylene, polypropylene, plywood, particleboard, medium density fiberboard (MDF), cartons and other raw materials from many different sources for the manufacture of its principal products. Management believes the Company is not more vulnerable with respect to the sources and availability of these raw materials than other manufacturers of similar products. The Company's largest raw material cost is for steel, followed by plastics and wood. 

The price of these commodities, particularly steel and plastic, can be volatile. Historically the Company has experienced years where the price of steel, plastic, and wood have spiked significantly; often as a result of global demand but also in response to domestic supply interruptions. During 2014, and 2015, the cost of steel, plastic, and wood remained stable. In 2016 the cost of these commodities declined. 

In addition to the raw materials described above, the Company purchases components used in the fabrication and assembly of furniture from a variety of overseas locations, but primarily from China. These components are classified as raw materials in the financial statements until such time that the components are consumed in a fabrication or assembly processes. These components are sourced from a variety of factories, none of which are owned or operated by the Company. Costs for these imported components increased moderately during each of the last three years, and are expected to be stable in 2017. 

With respect to the Company's annual contracts (or those contracts that have longer terms), the Company may have limited ability to increase prices during the term of the contract. The Company has, however, negotiated increased flexibility under many of these contracts, allowing the Company to increase prices on future orders. Nevertheless, even with respect to these more flexible contracts, the Company does not have the ability to increase prices on orders received prior to any announced price increases. Due to the intensely seasonal nature of our business, the Company may receive significant orders during the first and second quarters for delivery in the second and third quarters. With respect to any of the contracts described above, if the costs of raw materials increase suddenly or unexpectedly, the Company cannot be certain that it will be able to implement corresponding increases in its sales prices in order to offset such increased costs. Significant cost increases in providing products during a given contract period can adversely impact operating results and have done so during prior years. The Company typically benefits from any decreases in raw material costs under the contracts described above. 

Marketing and Distribution 

Virco serves its customers through a well-trained, nationwide sales and support team, as well as a dealer network. In addition, Virco has a Corporate Sales Group to pursue wholesalers, mail order accounts and national chains where management believes it would be more efficient to have a single sales representative or group approach such persons, as they tend to have needs that transcend the geographic boundaries established for Virco's local accounts. 

Virco's educational product line is marketed through what management believes to be the largest direct sales force of any education furniture manufacturer. The Company's approach to servicing its customer base is very flexible, and is tailored to best meet the needs of individual customers and regions. When considered to be most efficient, the sales force will call directly upon school business officials, who may include purchasing agents or individual school principals where site-based management is practiced. Where it is considered advantageous, the Company will use large exclusive distributors and full-service dealer partners. The Company's direct sales force is considered to be an important competitive advantage over competitors who rely primarily upon dealer networks for distribution of their products. 

Virco's sales force is assisted by the Company's proprietary PlanSCAPE&#174; software and experienced PlanSCAPE managers when preparing complete package solutions for the FF&#38;E segment of bond-funded public school construction projects. PlanSCAPE software also enables the entire Virco sales force to prepare quotations for less complicated projects. 

A significant portion of Virco's business is awarded through annual bids with school districts or other buying groups used by school districts. These bids are typically valid for one year. Many contracts contain penalty, performance, and debarment provisions that can result in debarment for a number of years, a financial penalty, or calling of performance bonds. 

Sales of commercial and contract furniture are made throughout the United States by distributorships and by Company sales representatives who service the distributorship network. Virco representatives call directly upon state and local governments, convention centers, individual hospitality venues, places of worship and mass merchants. This market includes colleges and universities, preschools, private schools, and office training facilities, which typically purchase furniture through commercial channels. 

The Company sells to thousands of customers, and, as such no single customer represented more than 10 percent of the Company's consolidated revenues in 2016. Significant purchases of furniture using public funds often require annual bids or some form of &#8220;authorization&#8221; to purchase goods or services from a vendor. This authorization can include state contracts, local and national buying groups, or local school districts that &#8220;piggyback&#8221; on the bid of a larger district. In virtually all cases, purchase orders and payments are processed by the individual school districts, even though the contract pricing may be determined by a state contract, national or local buying group, or consortium of school districts. Schools usually can purchase from more than one contract or purchasing vehicle, if they are participants in buying groups as well as being eligible for a state or national contract. 

Virco is the exclusive supplier of movable classroom furniture for one nationwide purchasing organization under which many of our customers price their furniture. See &#8220;Risk Factors : Approximately 50% of our sales are priced through one contract, under which we are the exclusive supplier of classroom furniture.&#8221; Sales priced under this contract represented approximately 51% of sales in 2016, 49% of sales in 2015, and 49% of sales in 2014. In 2009, the Company was awarded a three-year contract with this purchasing organization extending through 2012 and three one-year extensions extending through 2015. In 2015, the Company was awarded a three year extension through 2018. If Virco were unable to sell under this contract, we believe we would be able to sell to the vast majority of our customers under alternative contracts. 

The Company&#8217;s education customers typically do not have logistic capabilities and more than 75 % of sales are FOB destination, and include freight to customer. Approximately 90% of the Company&#8217;s freight is supplied by third party carriers. Utilizing third party carriers is an effective method of addressing the significant seasonal peak in summer and moderating excess capacity issues in the slow season. Reliance on third party carriers can expose the Company to freight rate volatility, fuel surcharges, and to capacity constraints in the transportation industry. Historically, the Company has been able to obtain adequate capacity from freight vendors to service the summer season. 

Seasonality 

The educational sales market is extremely seasonal. Approximately 50% of the Company's total sales in 2016 were delivered in June, July, and August with an even higher portion of educational sales delivered in that period. Shipments during peak weeks in July and August can be as great as six times the level of shipments in the winter months. 

Working Capital Requirements During Our &#8220;Peak&#8221; Summer Season 

As discussed above, the market for educational furniture and equipment is marked by extreme seasonality, with the majority of shipments occurring from June to August each year, which is the Company's peak season. As a result of this seasonality, Virco 

builds and carries significant amounts of inventory during the peak summer season to facilitate the rapid delivery requirements of customers in the educational market. This requires a large up-front investment in raw materials and components, labor, storage and related costs as inventory is built in anticipation of peak sales during the summer months. As the capital required for this build-up generally exceeds cash available from operations, Virco has historically relied on bank financing to meet cash flow requirements during the build-up period immediately preceding the high season. Currently, the Company has a line of credit with PNC Bank to assist in meeting cash flow requirements as inventory is built for, and business is transacted during, the peak summer season. 

In addition, Virco typically is faced with a large balance of accounts receivable during the peak season. This occurs for three primary reasons. First, accounts receivable balances naturally increase during the peak season as product shipments increase. Second, many customers during this period are government institutions, which tend to pay accounts receivable more slowly than commercial customers. Third, many summer deliveries may be &#8220;projects&#8221; where the Company provides furniture for a new school or significant refurbishment of an existing school. Projects may require architect sign off, school board approval prior to payment, or punch list completion, all of which can delay payment. Virco has historically enjoyed high levels of collectability on these accounts receivable due to the low-credit risk associated with such customers. Nevertheless, due to the &#32; time differential between inventory build-up in anticipation of the peak season and the collection on accounts receivable throughout the peak season, the Company must rely on external sources of financing. 

As a result of the seasonality of our business, our manufacturing capacity is dictated by the capacity requirement during the months of June, July, and August. Because of this seasonality, factory utilization is lower during the slow season. The Company utilizes a variety of tactics to address this seasonal business. During the summer months, which comprise our second and third fiscal quarters, our full time personnel utilization generally is at or exceeds full capacity. The Company utilizes temporary labor and significant overtime to meet these seasonal requirements. During the slow portions of the year, temporary labor and overtime are eliminated to moderate the off-season costs. Our manufacturing facility capacity utilization generally remains less than 100% during these off-season months; because physical structure capacity cannot be adjusted as readily as personnel capacity, we have secured sufficient physical structure capacity to accommodate our current needs as well as for anticipated future growth. Our physical structure utilization is significantly lower during the first and fourth quarters of each year than it is during the second and third quarters. 

The Company utilizes a comparable strategy to address warehousing and distribution requirements. During summer months, temporary labor is hired to supplement experienced warehouse and distribution personnel. More than 90% of the Company's freight is provided by third-party carriers. Utilizing third party carriers is an effective method of addressing the significant seasonal peak in summer and moderating excess capacity issues in the slow season. Reliance on third party carriers can expose the Company to freight rate volatility, fuel surcharges, and to capacity constraints in the transportation industry. The Company has secured sufficient warehouse capacity to accommodate our current needs as well as anticipated future growth. 

Virco's working capital requirements during, and in anticipation of, the peak summer season require management to make estimates and judgments that affect assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related contingent assets and liabilities. For example, management expends a significant amount of time in the first quarter of each year developing a stocking plan and estimating the number of temporary summer employees, the amount of raw materials, and the types of components and products that will be required during the peak season. If management underestimates any of these requirements, Virco's ability to meet customer orders in a timely manner or to provide adequate customer service may be diminished. If management overestimates any of these requirements, the Company may have to absorb higher storage, labor and related costs, each of which may negatively affect the Company's results of operations. On an on-going basis, management evaluates and adjusts its estimates, including those related to market demand, labor costs, and stocking inventory. Moreover, management continually strives to improve its ability to correctly forecast the requirements of the Company's business during the peak season each year based in part on annual contracts which are in place and management's experience with respect to the market. 

As part of Virco's efforts to balance seasonality, financial performance and quality without sacrificing service or market share, management has been refining the Company's ATS operating model. ATS is Virco's version of mass-customization, which assembles standardized, stocked components into customized configurations before shipment. The ATS program reduces the total amount of inventory and working capital needed to support a given level of sales. It does this by increasing the inventory's versatility, delaying assembly until the last moment, and reducing the amount of warehouse space needed to store finished goods. As part of the ATS stocking program, Virco has endeavored to create a more flexible work force. The Company has developed compensation programs to reward employees who are willing to move from fabrication to assembly to the warehouse as seasonal demands evolve. 

Other Matters 

Competition 

Virco has numerous competitors in each of its markets. In the educational furniture market, Virco manufactures furniture and sells direct to educational customers. Competitors typically fall into two categories (1) furniture manufacturers that sell to dealers which re-sell furniture to the end user, and (2) dealers that purchase product from these manufacturers and re-sell to educational customers. The manufacturers that Virco competes with include HON (HNI) which acquired Sagus International LLC (which markets product under Artco-Bell, American Desk, and Midwest Folding Products), KI Inc., Bretford, Smith System, Columbia, Scholarcraft, Alumni, ECR4Kids, and VS America. Historically, our largest competitor that purchases and re-sells furniture has been School Specialty (SCHS). In January 2013, School Specialty filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code and emerged in mid-2013. Contrax is a significant nationwide reseller focusing on projects. In addition to School Specialty and Contrax, there are numerous catalogers, internet resellers, and smaller local education furniture dealers that sell into local markets. Competitors in contract furniture vary depending upon the specific product line or sales market and include Falcon Products, National Public Seating, Bretford, Sandusky Lee, Bush Industries, MTS and Mity Enterprises, Inc. 

The educational furniture market is characterized by price competition, as many sales occur on a bid basis. Management compensates for this market characteristic through a combination of methods that include emphasizing the value of Virco's products and product assortment, the convenience of one-stop shopping for &#8220;Equipment for Educators&#8482;&#8221;, the value of Virco's project management capabilities, the value of Virco's distribution and delivery capabilities, and the value of Virco's customer support capabilities and other intangibles. In addition, management believes that the streamlining of costs assists the Company in compensating for this market characteristic by allowing Virco to offer a higher value product at a lower price. For example, as discussed above, Virco has decreased distribution costs by avoiding re-sellers, and management believes that the Company's large direct sales force and the Company's sizeable manufacturing and warehousing capabilities facilitate these efforts. Although management prefers to compete on the value of Virco products and services, when market conditions warrant, the Company will compete based on direct prices and may reduce its prices to build or maintain its market share. 

Backlog 

Sales order backlog at January 31, 2016, totaled $12.2 million and approximated eight weeks of sales, compared to $11.8 million at January 31, 2015, and $13.5 million at January 31, 2014. Substantially all of the backlog will ship during the year ending January 31, 2017. 

Patents and Trademarks 

In the last 10 years, the United States Patent and Trademark Office (the &#8220;USPTO&#8221;) has issued to Virco more than 50 patents on its various new product lines. These patents cover various design and utility features in Ph.D.&#174; chairs, I.Q.&#174; Series furniture, the ZUMAfrd&#8482; family of products, and the ZUMA&#174; family of products, among others. 

Virco has a number of other design and utility patents in the United States and other countries that provide protection for Virco's intellectual property as well. These patents expire over the next one to 16 years. Virco maintains an active program to protect its investment in technology and patents by monitoring and enforcing its intellectual property rights. While Virco's patents are an important element of its success, Virco's business as a whole is not believed to be materially dependent on any one patent. See &#8220;Risk Factors: An inability to protect our intellectual property could have a significant impact on our business.&#8221; 

In order to distinguish genuine Virco products from competitors' products, Virco has obtained the rights to certain trademarks and trade names for its products and engages in advertising and sales campaigns to promote its brands and to identify genuine Virco products. While Virco's trademarks and trade names play an important role in its success, Virco's business as a whole is not believed to be materially dependent on any one trademark or trade name, except perhaps &#8220;Virco,&#8221; which the Company has protected and enhanced as an emblem of quality educational furniture for over 66 years. 

Virco has no franchises or concessions that are considered to be of material importance to the conduct of its business and has not appraised or established a value for its patents or trademarks. 

Employees 

As of January 31, 2016, Virco and its subsidiaries employed approximately 695 full-time employees across our facilities. Of this number, approximately 535 are involved in manufacturing and distribution, approximately 95 in sales and marketing and approximately 65 in administration. The Company also utilizes temporary workers as necessary to meet seasonal production, warehousing or distribution requirements that cannot be filled by its full time workforce. During 2016, the Company employed 

approximately 350 temporary workers during the months of June, July, and August, with smaller numbers immediately preceding and following these months. 

Environmental Compliance 

Virco is subject to numerous federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations in the various jurisdictions in which it operates that (a) govern operations that may have adverse environmental effects, such as the discharge of materials into the environment, as well as handling, storage, transportation and disposal practices for solid and hazardous wastes, and (b) impose liability for response costs and certain damages resulting from past and current spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous materials. In this context, Virco works diligently to remain in compliance with all such environmental laws and regulations as these affect the Company's operations. Moreover, Virco has enacted policies for recycling and resource recovery that have earned repeated commendations, including: recognition by the California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery (CalRecycle) in 2012 and 2011 as a Waste Reduction Awards Program (WRAP) honoree; recognition by the United States Environmental Protection Agency in 2004 as a WasteWise Hall of Fame Charter Member, in 2003 as a WasteWise Partner of the Year and in 2002 as a WasteWise Program Champion for Large Businesses; and recognition by the Sanitation Districts of Los Angeles County for compliance with industrial waste water discharge guidelines in 2008 through 2011. This is only a partial list of Virco's environmental awards and commendations; for a more complete list, go to www.virco.com and click on the Corporate Stewardship header. In addition to these awards and commendations, Virco's ZUMA&#174; and ZUMAfrd&#8482; product lines were the first classroom furniture collections to earn indoor air quality certification through the stringent GREENGUARD&#174; Children &#38; Schools Program, now known as Greenguard Gold certification. As a follow-up to the certification of ZUMA and ZUMAfrd models in 2006, hundreds of other Virco furniture items - including Analogy&#8482; furniture models and Textameter&#8482; instructor workstations - have earned GREENGUARD certification. Moreover, all Virco products covered by the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 are in compliance with this legislation. All affected Virco models are also in compliance with the California Air Resources Board rule implemented on January 1, 2009, concerning formaldehyde emissions from composite wood products. Environmental laws have changed rapidly in recent years, and Virco may be subject to more stringent environmental laws in the future. The Company has expended, and may be expected to continue to expend, significant amounts in the future for compliance with environmental rules and regulations, for the investigation of environmental conditions, for the installation of environmental control equipment, or remediation of environmental contamination. Normal recurring expenses relating to operating our factories in a manner that meets or exceeds environmental laws are matched to the cost of producing inventory. It is possible that the Company's operations may result in noncompliance with, or liability for remediation pursuant to, environmental laws. Should such eventualities occur, the Company records liabilities for remediation costs when remediation costs are probable and can be reasonably estimated. See Risk Factors: We could be required to incur substantial costs to comply with environmental requirements.&#8221; Violations of, and liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations may increase our costs or require us to change our business practices. 

Financial Information About Industry Segment and Geographic Areas 

Virco operates in a single industry segment. For information regarding the Company's revenues, gross profit and total assets for each of the last three fiscal years, see the Company's consolidated financial statements. 

During 2016, Virco derived approximately 6.7% of its revenues from customers located outside of the United States (primarily Canada). During 2015, Virco derived approximately 7.7% of its revenues from customers located outside of the United States (primarily Canada and Puerto Rico). During 2014, Virco derived approximately 7.5% of its revenues from customers located outside of the United States (primarily Canada and Puerto Rico). The Company determines sales to these markets based upon the customers' principal place of business. During 2016, 2015 and 2014, the Company did not have any long-lived assets outside of the United States. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

As of April 1, 2016, the executive officers of the Company, who are elected by and serve at the discretion of the Company&#8217;s Board of Directors, were as follows: 

Name 

&#160; 

Office 

&#160; 

Age at 

January 31, 2016 

&#160; 

Has Held 

Office Since 

Robert A. Virtue (1) 

&#160; 

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Douglas A. Virtue (2) 

&#160; 

President 

&#160; 

&#160; 

J. Scott Bell (3) 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President - Chief Operating Officer 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Robert E. Dose (4) 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President - Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Patricia Quinones (5) 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President - Chief Administrative Officer 

&#160; 

&#160; 

James D. Johnson (6) 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President - Chief Marketing Officer 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Rob Devers (7) 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President - Chief Information Officer 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Bassey Yau (8) 

&#160; 

Vice President - Corporate Controller, Assistant Secretary and Assistant Treasurer 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160;________________________ 

(1) 

Appointed Chairman in 1990; has been employed by the Company for 59 years and served as the President from 1982 until 2014 and Chief Executive Officer since 1988. 

(2) 

Appointed President in 2014; has been employed by the Company for 30 years and has served in Production Control, as Contract Administrator, as Manager of Marketing Services, as General Manager of the Torrance Division, as Corporate Executive Vice President and currently as President. 

(3) 

Appointed in 2004; has been employed by the Company for 27 years and has served in a variety of manufacturing, safety, and environmental positions, Vice President - General Manager, Conway Division, and currently as Chief Operating Officer. 

(4) 

Appointed in 1995; has been employed by the Company for 25 years and has served as the Corporate Controller, and currently as Senior Vice President of Finance, Secretary and Treasurer. 

(5) 

Appointed in 2004; has been employed by the Company for 24 years in a variety customer and marketing service positions, Vice President of Logistics, Marketing Services and Information Technology and currently as Chief Administrative Officer. 

(6) 

Appointed in 2015 as Senior Vice President of Marketing &#38; Business Development, currently as Chief Marketing Officer. 

(7) 

Appointed in 2016 as Chief Information Officer. 

(8) 

Appointed in 2004; has been employed by the Company for 19 years and has served as Corporate Controller, and currently as Vice President Accounting, Corporate Controller, Assistant Secretary and Assistant Treasurer. 

None of the Company&#8217;s executive officers have employment contracts. 

Available Information 

Virco files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). Stockholders may read and copy this information at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Stockholders may also obtain copies of this information by mail from the Public Reference Room at the address set forth above, at prescribed rates. 

The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about issuers like Virco who file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is www.sec.gov. 

In addition, Virco makes available to its stockholders, free of charge through its Internet website, its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed, or furnished pursuant to, Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;), as soon as reasonably practicable after Virco electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. The address of that site is www.virco.com. 

