 Item 1. 

Business 

Our Company 

Verisk Analytics is a leading data analytics provider serving customers in insurance, natural resources, healthcare, financial services, government, and risk management. Using advanced technologies to collect and analyze billions of records, we draw on unique data assets and deep domain expertise to provide innovations that may be integrated into customer workflows. We offer predictive analytics and decision support solutions to customers in rating, underwriting, claims, catastrophe and weather risk, global risk analytics, natural resources intelligence, economic forecasting, and many other fields. In the United States and around the world, we help customers protect people, property, and financial assets. 

Our customers use our solutions to make better decisions about risk and opportunities with greater efficiency and discipline. We refer to these products and services as "solutions" due to the integration among our services and the flexibility that enables our customers to purchase components or the comprehensive package. These "solutions" take various forms, including data, expert insight, statistical models or tailored analytics, all designed to allow our clients to make more logical decisions. We believe our solutions for analyzing risk positively impact our customers&#8217; revenues and help them better manage their costs. In 2015 , our customers included all of the top 100 &#32;Property and Casualty, or P&#38;C, insurance providers in the U.S. for the lines of P&#38;C services we offer, 29 of the top 30 credit card issuers in North America, the United Kingdom and Australia, as well as 9 of the top 10 health plan providers in the U.S. We also work with a wide range of companies, governments and institutions across the energy, metals and mining value chains. We believe that our commitment to our customers and the embedded nature of our solutions serve to strengthen and extend our relationships. 

We believe that Verisk is uniquely positioned because of the set of distinctives-or competitive advantages-we cultivate and continue to expand. Our legacy businesses, in addition to new product innovations, integrate these four singular qualities into the foundation of our strategy. 

Our Distinctives 

&#8226; Unique Data Assets - Data is at the core of what we do. We use our proprietary data assets to develop predictive analytics and transformative models for our customers. 

&#8226; Deep Domain Expertise - We have specialized and in-depth knowledge in a number of defined vertical markets, including insurance, healthcare, energy, financial services, and risk management. We understand that different verticals require different approaches, and our deep domain expertise adds value to our analytics in the markets we serve. 

&#8226; Steady Stream of First-to-Market Innovations - We move quickly to be the first to market with new solutions. Generally speaking, the marketplace assumes that those that are first to market are superior to the competition and better positioned to succeed. 

&#8226; Deep Integration into Customer Workflows - By embedding our solutions into customer workflows, we help our customers better manage risk and optimize their bottom line. We achieve this goal by remaining closely connected to our customers at all times and serving their distinct needs. 

We offer our solutions and services primarily through annual subscriptions or long-term agreements, which are typically pre-paid and represented approximately 75% of our revenues in 2015 . For the year ended December 31, 2015 , we had revenues of $2,068.0 million &#32;and net income of $507.6 million . For the five year period ended December 31, 2015 , our revenues and net income grew at a compound annual growth rate, or CAGR, of 14.8% &#32;&#32;and 15.8%, respectively. 

Our History 

We trace our history to 1971, when Insurance Services Office, Inc., or ISO, started operations as a not-for-profit advisory and rating organization providing services for the U.S. P&#38;C insurance industry. ISO was formed as an association of insurance companies to gather statistical data and other information from insurers and report to regulators, as required by law. ISO&#8217;s original functions also included developing programs to help insurers define and manage insurance products and providing information to help insurers determine their own independent premium rates. Insurers used and continue to use our offerings primarily in their product development, underwriting and rating functions. Today, those businesses form the core of our Risk Assessment segment. 

Over the past two decades, we have transformed our business beyond its original functions by deepening and broadening our data assets, developing a set of integrated risk management solutions and services and addressing new markets through our Decision Analytics segment. Our expansion into analytics began when we acquired the American Insurance Services Group, or AISG, and certain operations and assets of the National Insurance Crime Bureau in 1997 and 1998, respectively. Those organizations brought to the company large databases of insurance claims, as well as expertise in detecting and preventing claims fraud. To further expand our Decision Analytics segment, we acquired AIR Worldwide, or AIR, in 2002, the technological leader in catastrophe modeling. In 2004, we entered the healthcare space by acquiring several businesses that now offer web-based analytical and reporting systems for health insurers, provider organizations and self-insured employers. In 2005, we entered the mortgage sector, acquiring the first of several businesses that provided automated fraud detection, compliance and decision support solutions for the U.S. mortgage industry, which we sold in March 2014. In 2006, to bolster our position in the insurance claims field we acquired Xactware, a leading supplier of estimating software for professionals involved in building repair and reconstruction. In 2010, we acquired 3E Company, creating a scale presence in supply chain and environmental health and safety. In 2011 and 2012, we further bolstered our healthcare solutions by acquiring Health Risk Partners, LLC, or HRP, which provides solutions to optimize revenue, improve compliance and improve quality of care for Medicare Advantage health plans and MediConnect Global, Inc. or MediConnect, which provides medical record retrieval, digitization, coding, extraction, and analysis to the healthcare and property casualty industry. Also in 2012, we acquired Argus Information &#38; Advisory Services, LLC, or Argus, to expand our presence in providing information, competitive benchmarking, analytics, and customized services to financial institutions in the payments space globally. In 2014, we acquired Maplecroft.Net Limited, or Maplecroft; as part of our risk management and supply chain solutions business, Maplecroft continues to deliver thorough analyses of geopolitical, societal, human rights, economic, and environmental risks for many countries in the world. In 2015, we acquired Wood Mackenzie Limited, or Wood Mackenzie, to advance our strategy to expand internationally and position us in the global energy market. 

These acquisitions have added scale, geographic reach, highly skilled workforces, and a wide array of new capabilities to our Decision Analytics segment. They have helped to make us a leading provider of information and decision analytics for customers involved in the business of risk in the U.S. and selectively around the world. 

On May 23, 2008, in contemplation of our initial public offering, or IPO, ISO formed Verisk Analytics, Inc., or Verisk, a Delaware corporation, to be the holding company for our business. Verisk was initially formed as a wholly-owned subsidiary of ISO. On October 6, 2009, in connection with our IPO, the Company effected a reorganization whereby ISO became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Verisk. Verisk common stock began trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on October 7, 2009 under the symbol &#8220;VRSK.&#8221; 

On October 1, 2010, we completed a follow-on public offering. We did not receive any proceeds from the sale of common stock in the offering. The primary purpose of the offering was to manage and organize the sale by Class B insurance company shareholders while providing incremental public float. Concurrently with the closing of the offering, we repurchased shares of common stock, for an aggregate purchase price of $192.5 million, directly from selling shareholders owning Class B common stock. We converted all Class B shares to Class A shares in 2011 and currently have no outstanding Class B shares. On May 26, 2015, we eliminated the separate classes of common stock, and as a result, Verisk Class A and Class B common stock were renamed common stock. 

Our senior management team, which includes our president and chief executive officer, chief financial officer, general counsel, and nine senior officers who lead our business and operational units, have been with us for an average of almost 15 &#32;years. This team has led our transformation to a successful for-profit entity, focused on growth with our U.S. P&#38;C insurer customers and expansion into a variety of new vertical markets, including healthcare, financial services, and energy and specialized markets. 

Segments 

We organize our business in two segments: Risk Assessment and Decision Analytics. See &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; in Part II of this annual report for additional information regarding our segments. See Note 18 of our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K for further information. 

Risk Assessment Segment 

Our Risk Assessment segment serves our P&#38;C insurance customers and focuses on prediction of loss and selection and pricing of risk. Within this segment, we also provide solutions to help our insurance customers comply with their reporting requirements in each U.S. state in which they operate. Our customers include most of the P&#38;C insurance providers in the U.S. 

Industry-Standard Insurance Programs 

We are the recognized leader in the U.S. for industry-standard insurance programs that help P&#38;C insurers define coverages and issue policies. Our policy language, prospective loss cost information and policy writing rules can serve as integrated turnkey insurance programs for our customers. Insurance companies need to ensure that their policy language, rules, and rates comply with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Insurers must also make sure their policies remain competitive by promptly changing coverages in response to changes in statutes or case law. To meet their needs, we process and interface with state regulators in all 50 states plus the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands approximately 2,800 regulatory filings each year ensuring smooth implementation of our rules and forms. When insurers choose to develop their own alternative programs, our industry-standard insurance programs also help regulators make sure that such insurers&#8217; policies meet basic coverage requirements. 

Standardized coverage language, which has been tested in litigation and tailored to reflect judicial interpretation, helps to ensure consistent treatment of claimants. As a result, our industry-standard language also simplifies claim settlements and can reduce the occurrence of costly litigation, because our language causes the meaning of coverage terminology to become established and known. Our policy language includes standard coverage language, endorsements and policy writing support language that assist our customers in understanding the risks they assume and the coverages they are offering. With these policy programs, insurers also benefit from economies of scale. We have over 107 specialized lawyers and insurance experts reviewing changes in each state&#8217;s insurance rules and regulations, including on average over 16,000 legislative bills, 1,900 regulatory actions and 2,000 court cases per year, to make any required changes to our policy language and rating information. 

To cover the wide variety of risks in the marketplace, we offer a broad range of policy programs. For example, in the homeowner&#8217;s line of insurance, we maintain policy language and rules for 6 basic coverages, 261 national endorsements, and 602 state-specific endorsements. Overall, we provide policy language, prospective loss costs, policy writing rules, and a variety of other solutions for 26 lines of insurance. 

The P&#38;C insurance industry is heavily regulated in the U.S. P&#38;C insurers are required to collect statistical data about their premiums and losses and to report that data to regulators in every state in which they operate. Our statistical agent services have enabled P&#38;C insurers to meet these regulatory requirements for over 40 years. We aggregate the data and, as a licensed or appointed &#8220;statistical agent&#8221; in all 50 states, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia, we report these statistics to insurance regulators. We are able to capture significant economies of scale given the level of penetration of this service within the U.S. P&#38;C insurance industry. 

To provide our customers and the regulators the information they require, we maintain one of the largest private databases in the world. Over the past four decades, we have developed core expertise in acquiring, processing, managing, and operating large and comprehensive databases that are the foundation of our Risk Assessment segment. We use our proprietary technology to assemble, organize and update vast amounts of detailed information submitted by our customers. We supplement this data with publicly available information. 

Each year, P&#38;C insurers send us approximately 3.4 billion detailed individual records of insurance transactions, such as insurance premiums collected or losses incurred. We maintain a database of over 19.0 billion statistical records, including approximately 7.8 billion commercial lines records and approximately 11.2 billion personal lines records. We collect unit-transaction detail of each premium and loss record, which enhances the validity, reliability and accuracy of our data sets and our actuarial analyses. Our proprietary quality process includes over 2,500 separate checks to ensure that data meet our high standards of quality. 

We provide actuarial services to help our customers analyze and price their risks. Using our large database of premium and loss data, our actuaries are able to perform sophisticated analyses using our predictive models and analytic methods to help our P&#38;C insurance customers with pricing, loss reserving, and marketing. We distribute a number of actuarial solutions and offer flexible services to meet our customers&#8217; needs. In addition, our actuarial consultants provide customized services for our clients that include assisting them with the development of independent insurance programs, analysis of their own underwriting experience, development of classification systems and rating plans, and a wide variety of other business decisions. We also supply information to a wide variety of customers in other markets including reinsurance and government agencies. 

We project future losses and loss expenses utilizing a broad set of data. These projections tend to be more reliable than if our customers used solely their own data. We make a number of actuarial adjustments before the data is used to estimate future costs. Our customers can use our estimates of future costs in making independent decisions about the prices charged for their policies. For most P&#38;C insurers, in most lines of business, we believe our estimates of future costs are an essential input to rating decisions. Our actuarial products and services are also used to create the analytics underlying our industry-standard insurance programs described above. 

Property-Specific Rating and Underwriting Information 

We gather information on individual properties and communities so that insurers can use our information to evaluate and price personal and commercial property insurance, as well as commercial liability insurance. Our property-specific rating and underwriting information allow our customers to understand, quantify, underwrite, mitigate, and avoid potential loss for commercial properties. Our database contains loss costs and other vital information on more than 3.6 million commercial buildings in the United States and also holds information on more than 6.4 million individual businesses occupying those buildings. We have a staff of more than 600 field representatives strategically located around the United States who observe and report on conditions at commercial and residential properties, evaluate community fire-protection capabilities and assess the effectiveness of municipal building-code enforcement. Each year, our field staff visits over 285,000 commercial properties to collect information on new buildings and verify building attributes. 

We also provide proprietary analytic measures of the ability of individual communities to mitigate losses from important perils. Nearly every property insurer in the U.S. uses our evaluations of community firefighting capabilities to help determine premiums for fire insurance throughout the country. We provide field-verified and validated data on the fire protection services for more than 47,000 fire response jurisdictions. We also offer services to evaluate the effectiveness of community enforcement of building codes and the efforts of communities to mitigate damage from flooding. Further, we provide information on the insurance rating territories, premium taxes, crime risk, and hazards of windstorm, earthquake, wildfire, and other perils. To supplement our data on specific commercial properties and individual communities, we have assembled, from a variety of internal and third-party sources, information on hazards related to geographic locations representing every postal address in the U.S. Insurers use this information not only for policy quoting but also for analyzing risk concentration in geographical areas. We also make our data and analytics available to commercial real estate lenders to allow them to better understand risks associated with people they lend against. 

Decision Analytics Segment 

In the Decision Analytics segment, we develop predictive models to forecast scenarios and produce both standard and customized analytics that help our customers better manage their businesses, including predicting loss, selecting and pricing risk, detecting fraud before and after a loss event, and quantifying losses. The businesses are categorized by the primary vertical end market for their services. 

&#160; 

As we develop our models, our ability to provide value to our customers is enhanced by our solutions, which are constantly recalibrated by refreshed data of actual events. These unique data sets, combined with our deep industry expertise, provide us significant competitive advantage over our competitors 

Insurance 

We are a leading provider of fraud-detection tools for the P&#38;C insurance industry. Our fraud solutions improve our customers&#8217; profitability by both predicting the likelihood that fraud is occurring and detecting suspicious activity after it has occurred. When a claim is submitted, our system searches our database and returns information about other claims filed by the same individuals or businesses (either as claimants or insurers) which helps our customers determine if fraud has occurred. The system searches for matches in identifying information fields, such as name, address, Social Security number, vehicle identification number, driver&#8217;s license number, tax identification number, or other parties to the loss. Our system also includes advanced name and address searching to perform intelligent searches and improve the overall quality of the matches. Information from match reports speeds payment of meritorious claims while providing a defense against fraud and can lead to denial of a claim, negotiation of a reduced award or further investigation by the insurer or law enforcement. 

We have a comprehensive system used by claims adjusters and investigations professionals to process claims and fight fraud. Claims databases are one of the key tools in the fight against insurance fraud. The benefits of a single all-claims database include improved efficiency in reporting data and searching for information, enhanced capabilities for detecting suspicious claims and superior information for investigating fraudulent claims, suspicious individuals and possible fraud rings. Our database contains information on approximately 1.1 billion claims and is the world&#8217;s largest database of P&#38;C claims information used for claims and investigations. Insurers and other participants submit new claims, more than 197,000 a day on average, across all categories of the U.S. P&#38;C insurance industry. 

We also provide an expert scoring system that helps distinguish between suspicious and meritorious claims; and products that use link-analysis technology to help visualize and fight insurance fraud. 

We pioneered the field of probabilistic catastrophe modeling used by insurers, reinsurers and financial institutions to manage their catastrophe risk. Our models of global natural hazards, which form the basis of our solutions, enable companies to identify, quantify and plan for the financial consequences of catastrophic events. We have developed models, covering natural 

hazards, including hurricanes, earthquakes, winter storms, tornadoes, hailstorms, and flood, for potential loss events in more than 100 countries. We have also developed and introduced a probabilistic terrorism model capable of quantifying the risk in the U.S. from this emerging threat, which supports pricing and underwriting decisions down to the level of an individual policy. 

We also provide data, analytic and networking products for professionals involved in estimating all phases of building repair and reconstruction. We provide solutions for every phase of a building&#8217;s life, including: 

&#8226; 

quantifying the ultimate cost of repair or reconstruction of damaged or destroyed buildings; 

&#8226; 

aiding in the settlement of insurance claims; and 

&#8226; 

tracking the process of repair or reconstruction and facilitating communication among insurers, adjusters, contractors and policyholders. 

To help our customers estimate repair costs, we provide a solution that assists contractors and insurance adjusters to estimate repairs using a patented plan-sketching program. The program allows our customers to sketch floor plans, roof plans and wall-framing plans and automatically calculates material and labor quantities for the construction of walls, floors, footings and roofs. 

We also offer our customers access to wholesale and retail price lists, which include structural repair and restoration pricing for 468 separate economic areas in North America. We revise this information monthly and, in the aftermath of a major disaster, we can update the price lists as often as weekly to reflect rapid price changes. Our structural repair and cleaning database contains more than 21,000 unit-cost line items. For each line item such as smoke cleaning, water extraction and hazardous cleanup, we report time and material pricing, including labor, labor productivity rates (for new construction and restoration), labor burden and overhead, material costs, and equipment costs. We improve our reported pricing data by several methods including direct market surveys and an analysis of the actual claims experience of our customers. We estimate that about 80% of insurance repair contractors and service providers in the U.S. and Canada with computerized estimating systems use our building and repair pricing data. Utilization of such a large percentage of the industry&#8217;s claims leads to accurate reporting of pricing information, which we believe is unmatched in the industry. 

Our estimates allow our customers to set loss reserves, deploy field adjusters and verify internal company estimates. Our estimates also keep insurers, their customers, regulators, and other interested parties informed about the total costs of disasters. We also provide our customers access to daily reports on severe weather and catastrophes and we maintain a database of information on catastrophe losses in the U.S. since 1950. 

Financial Services 

We focus on providing competitive benchmarking, scoring solutions, analytics, and customized services to financial services institutions in North and South America and Europe. We maintain the most comprehensive de-personalized direct observation consortia data sets for the payments industry. We leverage this consortia data and provide proprietary solutions and information that enable clients to achieve higher profitability and growth through enhanced marketing and risk management decisions. We have deployed unique technology to manage vast data sets efficiently and manage vast amount of payments data. We offer services and a suite of solutions to a client base that includes credit and debit card issuers, retail banks and other consumer financial services providers, payment processors, insurance companies, and other industry stakeholders. 

Our professionals have substantial industry knowledge in providing solutions to the financial services sector. We are known for our unique ability to blend the highly technical, data-centered aspects of our projects with expert communication and business knowledge. Our solutions enhance our clients&#8217; ability to manage their businesses profitably and position them better to handle present day challenges (competitive, regulatory, and economic). Specifically, we use comprehensive transaction, risk, behavioral, and bureau-sourced account data to assist clients in making better business decisions through analysis and analytical solutions. We maintain a comprehensive and granular direct observation database for credit card, debit card, and deposit transactions in the industry. 

Healthcare 

We offer payment accuracy &#32;solutions that help healthcare claims payors detect fraud, abuse and overpayment. Our approach combines computer-based modeling and profiling of claims with analysis performed by clinical experts. We run our customers&#8217; claims through our proprietary analytic system to identify potential fraud, abuse and overpayment, and then a registered nurse, physician or other clinical specialist skilled in coding and reimbursement decisions reviews all suspect claims and billing patterns. This combination of system and human review is unique in the industry and we believe offers improved accuracy for paying claims. We analyze the patterns of claims produced by individual physicians, physicians&#8217; practices, hospitals, dentists, and 

pharmacies to locate sources of fraud. After a suspicious source of claims is identified, our real-time analytic solutions investigate each claim individually for particular violations, including upcoding, multiple billings, services claimed but not rendered, and billing by unlicensed providers. By finding the individual claims with the most cost-recovery potential and also minimizing the number of false-positive indications of fraud, we enable the special investigation units of healthcare payors to efficiently control their claims costs while maintaining high levels of customer service to their insureds. We also offer web-based reporting tools that let payors take definitive action to prevent overpayments or payment of fraudulent claims. The tools provide the documentation that helps to identify, investigate and prevent abusive and fraudulent activity by providers. 

We provide enterprise analytics &#32;and reporting systems to health insurers, provider organizations and self-insured employers. Those organizations use our healthcare business intelligence solutions to review their data, including information on claims, membership, providers and utilization, and provide cost trends, forecasts and actuarial, financial and utilization analyses. For example, our solutions allow our customers to predict medical costs and improve the financing and organization of health services. Our predictive models help our customers identify high-cost cases for care-and disease-management intervention, compare providers adjusting for differences in health, predict resource use for individuals and populations, establish health-based and performance-based payments, negotiate payments and incentives, negotiate premium rates, and measure return on investment. We also provide our customers healthcare services using complex clinical analyses to uncover reasons behind cost and utilization increases. Physicians and hospitals are adopting and acquiring new technologies, drugs and devices more rapidly than ever before. We provide financial and actuarial analyses, clinical, technical and implementation services and training services to help our customers manage costs and risks to their practices. 

We are a provider of solutions for revenue &#38; quality intelligence &#32;and compliance for certain aspects of the healthcare industry. We have systems, including our revenue integrity business, which analyze Medicare data for compliance with CMS (Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services) guidelines, assist payers in payment integrity, data collection, and encounter data submission. By using our ReconEdge&#8482;, a web-based risk adjustment reconciliation system, healthcare payers can assess their organizations&#8217; opportunities and compliance in payments. In addition, we offer proprietary systems and services that facilitate the aggregation, retrieval, coding, and analysis of medical records. We have a repository of medical records that are digitized, indexed, and securely hosted online. We use custom-built, proprietary technology to deliver medical records from facilities and provider locations. Our clients can access the clinical data through a cloud-based workflow management system. We are also a provider of HEDIS &#174; &#32;(Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set) software solutions. Our solution suite allows managed care organizations to calculate and submit HEDIS results to NCQA (National Committee for Quality Assurance), improve quality in covered populations, and reduce administrative overhead associated with quality reporting. 

Energy and Specialized Markets 

As a result of our acquisition of Wood Mackenzie in 2015, we are a provider of industry standard commercial analytics for the global energy, chemicals and metals and mining industries. We provide comprehensive and integrated coverage of relevant commodities across these interconnected sectors. We have gathered proprietary information, insight and analysis on thousands of oil and gas fields, mines, refineries and other assets, as well as detailed assessments of the market fundamentals across each value chain. Our experts analyze the data and work directly with customers to address their business challenges. Our diverse customer base includes international and national energy companies, as well as chemicals, metals and mining companies, financial institutions and governments. 

We help businesses and governments better anticipate and manage climate-and weather-related risks. We prepare certain agencies and companies to anticipate, manage, react to and profit from weather and climate-related risk. We serve our clients by providing state-of-the-art research, development and analysis delivered in reports, databases and software solutions. We are dedicated to the advancement of scientific understanding of the atmospheric, climate and weather, ocean, and planetary sciences. Through research conducted by our in-house scientific staff, and often in collaboration with world-renowned scientists at academic and other research institutions, we have developed analytical tools to help measure and observe the properties of the environment and to translate these measurements into useful information to take action. 

We also offer a comprehensive suite of data and information services that enables improved compliance with global Environmental Health &#38; Safety, or EH&#38;S requirements related to the safe manufacturing, distribution, transportation, usage and disposal of chemicals and products. From the supply chain or solutions lifecycle, we deliver a program specific to the EH&#38;S compliance information and management needs of our customers. We have a full solutions lifecycle and cross-supply chain approach that provide a single, integrated solution for managing EH&#38;S capabilities, resulting in reduced cost, risk and liability while improving process. 

Our Growth Strategy 

Over the past five years, we have grown our revenues at a CAGR of 14.8% &#32;through the successful execution of our business plan. These results reflect strong organic revenue growth, new product development and acquisitions. We have made, and continue to make, investments in people, data sets, analytic solutions, technology, and complementary businesses. The key components of our strategy include: 

Increase Solution Penetration with Customers. We expect to expand the application of our solutions in insurance customers&#8217; internal risk and underwriting processes. Building on our deep knowledge of, and embedded position in, the insurance industry, we expect to sell more solutions to existing customers tailored to individual insurance segments. By increasing the breadth and relevance of our offerings, we believe we can strengthen our relationships with customers and increase our value to their decision making in critical ways. We also have opportunities to expand solution penetration in our health and financial services customers. 

Develop New, Proprietary Data Sets and Predictive Analytics. We work with our customers to understand their evolving needs. We plan to create new solutions by enriching our mix of proprietary data sets, analytic solutions and effective decision support across the markets we serve. We constantly seek to add new data sets that can further leverage our analytic methods, technology platforms and intellectual capital. 

Leverage Our Intellectual Capital to Expand into Adjacent Markets and New Customer Sectors. Our organization is built on over four decades of intellectual property in risk management. We believe we can continue to profitably expand the use of our intellectual capital and apply our analytic methods in new markets, where significant opportunities for long-term growth exist. We also continue to pursue growth through targeted international expansion. We have already demonstrated the effectiveness of this strategy with our expansion into healthcare and non-insurance financial services. 

Pursue Strategic Acquisitions that Complement Our Leadership Positions. We will continue to expand our data and analytics capabilities across industries. While we expect this will occur primarily through organic growth, we have and will continue to acquire assets and businesses that strengthen our value proposition to customers. We have developed an internal capability to source, evaluate and integrate acquisitions that have created value for shareholders. 

Our Customers 

Risk Assessment Customers 

The customers in our Risk Assessment segment for the lines of P&#38;C services we offer include the top 100 &#32;P&#38;C insurance providers in the United States, as well as insurers in international markets. Our statistical agent services are used by a substantial majority of P&#38;C insurance providers in the U.S. to report to regulators. Our actuarial services and industry-standard insurance programs are used by the majority of insurers and reinsurers in the U.S. In addition, certain agencies of the federal government, as well as county and state governmental agencies and organizations, use our solutions to help satisfy government needs for risk assessment and emergency response information. 

Decision Analytics Customers 

In the Decision Analytics segment, we provide our P&#38;C insurance solutions to the majority of the P&#38;C insurers in the U.S. Specifically, our claims database serves thousands of customers, representing over 90% of the P&#38;C insurance industry by premium volume, 27 state workers&#8217; compensation insurance funds, 570 self-insurers, 410 third-party administrators, several state fraud bureaus, and many law-enforcement agencies involved in investigation and prosecution of insurance fraud. We estimate that about 80% of insurance repair contractors and service providers in the U.S. and Canada with computerized estimating systems use our building and repair pricing data. In the U.S. healthcare industry, our customers include 9 of the top 10 health plan providers. Our customers included 29 of the top 30 credit card issuers in North America, the United Kingdom and Australia. We also work with a wide range of companies, governments and institutions across the energy, metals and mining value chains. 

Our Competitors 

We believe no single competitor currently offers the same scope of services and market coverage we provide. The breadth of markets we serve exposes us to a broad range of competitors as described below. Businesses that we acquire may introduce us to additional competitors. 

Risk Assessment Competitors 

Our Risk Assessment segment operates primarily in the U.S. P&#38;C insurance industry, where we enjoy a leading market presence. We have a number of competitors in specific lines or services. 

We encounter competition from a number of sources, including insurers who develop internal technology and actuarial methods for proprietary insurance programs. Competitors also include other statistical agents, including the National Independent Statistical Service, the Independent Statistical Service and other advisory organizations, providing underwriting rules, prospective loss costs and coverage language such as the American Association of Insurance Services and Mutual Services Organization, although we believe none of our competitors has the breadth or depth of data we have. 

Competitors for our property-specific rating and underwriting information are primarily limited to a number of regional providers of commercial property inspections and surveys, including Overland Solutions, Inc. and Regional Reporting, Inc. We also compete with a variety of organizations that offer consulting services, primarily specialty technology and consulting firms. In addition, a customer may use its own internal resources rather than engage an outside firm for these services. Our competitors also include information technology product and services vendors, management and strategy consulting firms including Deloitte Consulting LLP, and smaller specialized information technology firms and analytical services firms including Pinnacle Consulting and EMB, a unit of Towers Watson. 

Decision Analytics Competitors 

In the P&#38;C insurance claims market and catastrophe modeling market, certain products are offered by a number of companies, including Risk Management Solutions (catastrophe modeling) and CoreLogic (property replacement value ), LexisNexis Risk Solutions (loss histories and motor vehicle records for personal lines underwriting), Solera (personal automobile underwriting) and Simbility. We believe that our P&#38;C insurance industry expertise, combined with our ability to offer multiple applications, services and integrated solutions to individual customers, enhances our competitiveness against these competitors with more limited offerings. In the healthcare market, certain products are offered by a number of companies, including ViPS, Inc., OptumInsight, McKesson, Truven Health Analytics, Inovalon, and iHealth (healthcare predictive modeling and business intelligence). Competitive factors include application features and functions, ease of delivery and integration, ability of the provider to maintain, enhance and support the applications or services and price. In the natural resource commercial intelligence market, certain products are offered by a number of companies, including IHS (natural resources), Rystad (upstream), Global Data (upstream), PIRA (oil and gas markets) and CRU (metals). We believe that our global integrated value chain knowledge and insight, bottom-up proprietary data, and long term trusted relationships developed over the years enhance our competitiveness against these companies. 

Development of New Solutions 

We take a market-focused team approach to developing our solutions. Our operating units are responsible for developing, reviewing and enhancing our various products and services. Our data management and production team designs and manages our processes and systems for market data procurement, proprietary data production and quality control. Our Joint Development Environment, or JDE, and Enterprise Data Management, or EDM, teams support our efforts to create new information and products from available data and explores new methods of collecting data. EDM is focused on understanding and documenting business-unit and corporate data assets and data issues; sharing and combining data assets across the enterprise; creating an enterprise data strategy; facilitating research and product development; and promoting cross-enterprise communication. Our Verisk Innovative Analytics, or VIA, team is a corporate center of excellence for analytical methods in applying modeling techniques to predict risk outcomes. 

Our software development teams build the technology used in many of our solutions. As part of our product-development process, we continually solicit feedback from our customers on the value of our products and services and the market&#8217;s needs. We have established an extensive system of customer advisory panels, which meet regularly throughout the year to help us respond effectively to the needs of our markets. In addition, we use frequent sales calls, executive visits, user group meetings, and other industry forums to gather information to match the needs of the market with our product development efforts. We also use a variety of market research techniques to enhance our understanding of our clients and the markets in which they operate. 

We also add to our offerings through an active acquisition program. Since 2011, we have acquired twelve &#32;businesses, which have allowed us to enter new markets, offer new solutions and enhance the value of existing services with additional proprietary sources of data. 

When we find it advantageous, we augment our proprietary data sources and systems by forming alliances with other leading information providers and technology companies and integrating their product offerings into our offerings. This approach gives our customers the opportunity to obtain the information they need from a single source and more easily integrate the information into their workflows. 

Sales, Marketing and Customer Support 

We sell our products and services primarily through direct interaction with our clients. We employ a three-tier sales structure that includes salespeople, product specialists and sales support. As of December 31, 2015 , we had a sales force of 325 people. Within the company, several areas have sales teams that specialize in specific products and services. These specialized sales teams sell specific, highly technical product sets to targeted markets in coordination with account management. 

To provide account management to our largest customers, we segment the insurance carrier market into three groups. Tier One or &#8220;National&#8221; Accounts constitutes our largest customers, Tier Two or &#8220;Strategic&#8221; Accounts represents both larger carrier groups and middle-market carriers. Tier Three are the small insurance companies that may represent one line of business and/or be one-state or regional writers. A Sales Generalist is assigned to every insurer account and is responsible for our overall relationship with these insurance companies. Our senior executives are also involved with the senior management of our customers. 

Sales people participate in both customer-service and sales activities. They provide direct support, interacting frequently with assigned customers to assure a positive experience using our services. Salespeople primarily seek out new sales opportunities and work with the various sales teams to coordinate sales activity and provide the best solutions for our customers. We believe our salespeople&#8217;s product knowledge and local presence differentiates us from our competition. Product specialists are subject-matter experts and work with salespeople on specific opportunities for their assigned products. Both salespeople and product specialists have responsibility for identifying new sales opportunities. A team approach and a common customer relationship management system allow for effective coordination between the two groups. 

Sources of our Data 

The data we use to perform our analytics and power our solutions are sourced through seven different kinds of data arrangements. First, we gather data from our customers within agreements that also permit our customers to use the solutions created upon their data. These agreements remain in effect unless the data contributor chooses to opt out and represent our primary method of data gathering. It is very rare that contributors elect not to continue providing us data. Second, we have agreements with data contributors in which we specify the particular uses of their data and provide to the data contributors their required levels of privacy, protection of data and where necessary de-identification of data. These agreements represent no cost to us and generally feature a specified period of time for the data contributions and require renewal. Third, we &#8220;mine&#8221; data found inside the transactions supported by our solutions; as an example, we utilize the claims settlement data generated inside our repair cost estimating solution to improve the cost factors used in our models. Again, these arrangements represent no cost to us and we obtain the consent of our customers to make use of their data in this way. Fourth, we source data generally at no cost from public sources including federal, state and local governments. Fifth, we gather data about the physical characteristics of commercial properties through the direct observation of our field staff that also perform property surveys at the request of, and facilitated by, property insurers. Sixth, we purchase data from data aggregators under contracts that reflect prevailing market pricing for the data elements purchased, including county tax assessor records, descriptions of hazards such as flood plains and professional licenses. Lastly, we retrieve medical records from facilities and provider locations at prevailing market prices under agreements between our insurer customers and their provider networks. In all our modes of data collection, we are the owners of whatever derivative solutions we create using the data. Our costs for data received from our customers were 1.0% and 1.2% of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. 

Information Technology 

Technology 

Our information technology systems are fundamental to our success. They are used for the storage, processing, access and delivery of the data which forms the foundation of our business and the development and delivery of our solutions provided to our clients. Much of the technology we use and provide to our customers is developed, maintained and supported by approximately 1,631 employees. We generally own or have secured ongoing rights to use for the purposes of our business all the customer-facing applications which are material to our operations. We support and implement a mix of technologies, focused on implementing the most efficient technology for any given business requirement or task. 

Data Centers 

We have two primary data centers in Somerset, New Jersey and Lehi, Utah creating redundancy and back-up capabilities. In addition, we have data centers dedicated to certain business units located in other states. 

Disaster Recovery 

We are committed to a framework for business continuity management and carry out annual reviews of the state of preparedness of each business unit. All of our critical databases, systems and contracted client services are also regularly recovered. 

We also have documented disaster recovery plans in place for each of our major data centers and each of our solutions. Our primary data center recovery site is in New York State, approximately 50 miles northwest of Jersey City, New Jersey. 

Security 

We have adopted a wide range of measures to ensure the security of our IT infrastructure and data. Security measures generally cover the following key areas: physical security; logical security of the perimeter; network security such as firewalls; logical access to the operating systems; deployment of virus detection software; and appropriate policies and procedures relating to removable media such as laptops. All laptops are encrypted and media leaving our premises that is sent to a third-party storage facility is also encrypted. This commitment has led us to achieve certification from CyberTrust (an industry leader in information security certification) since 2002. 

Intellectual Property 

We own a significant number of intellectual property rights, including copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and patents. Specifically, our policy language, insurance manuals, software and databases are protected by both registered and common law copyrights, and the licensing of those materials to our customers for their use represents a large portion of our revenue. We also own in excess of 500 trademarks in the U.S. and foreign countries, including the names of our products and services and our logos and tag lines, many of which are registered. We believe many of our trademarks, trade names, service marks and logos to be of material importance to our business as they assist our customers in identifying our products and services and the quality that stands behind them. We consider our intellectual property to be proprietary, and we rely on a combination of statutory (e.g., copyright, trademark, trade secret and patent) and contractual safeguards in a comprehensive intellectual property enforcement program to protect them wherever they are used. 

We also own several software method and processing patents and have several pending patent applications in the U.S. that complement our products. The patents and patent applications include claims which pertain to technology, including a patent for our Claims Outcome Advisor software, and for our Xactware Sketch product. We believe the protection of our proprietary technology is important to our success and we will continue to seek to protect those intellectual property assets for which we have expended substantial research and development capital and which are material to our business. 

In order to maintain control of our intellectual property, we enter into license agreements with our customers, granting each customer a license to use our products and services, including our software and databases. This helps to maintain the integrity of our proprietary intellectual property and to protect the embedded information and technology contained in our solutions. As a general practice, employees, contractors and other parties with access to our proprietary information sign agreements that prohibit the unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary rights, information and technology. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we employed 7,647 full-time and 271 part-time employees. None of our employees are represented by unions. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good and have not experienced interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements. 

Our employees include over 170 actuarial professionals, including 35 Fellows and 24 Associates of the Casualty Actuarial Society, as well as 139 Chartered Property Casualty Underwriters, 17 Certified and 15 Associate Insurance Data Managers, and 592 professionals with advanced degrees, including PhDs in mathematics and statistical modeling who review both the data and the models. 

Regulation 

Because our business involves the distribution of certain personal, public and non-public data to businesses and governmental entities that make eligibility, service and marketing decisions based on such data, certain of our solutions and services are subject to regulation under federal, state and local laws in the United States and, to a lesser extent, foreign countries. Examples of such regulation include the Fair Credit Reporting Act, which regulates the use of consumer credit report information; the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which regulates the use of non-public personal financial information held by financial institutions and applies indirectly to companies that provide services to financial institutions; the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, which restricts the public disclosure of patient information and applies indirectly to companies that provide services to healthcare businesses; the Drivers Privacy Protection Act, which prohibits the public disclosure, use or resale by any state&#8217;s department of motor vehicles of personal information about an individual that was obtained by the department in connection with a motor vehicle record, except for a &#8220;permissible purpose&#8221;, and various other federal, state and local laws and regulations. 

These laws generally restrict the use and disclosure of personal information and provide consumers certain rights to know the manner in which their personal information is being used, to challenge the accuracy of such information and/or to prevent the use and disclosure of such information. In certain instances, these laws also impose requirements for safeguarding personal information through the issuance of data security standards or guidelines. Certain state laws impose similar privacy obligations, as well as obligations to provide notification of security breaches in certain circumstances. 

We are also licensed as a rating, rate service, advisory or statistical organization under state insurance codes in all fifty states, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands and the District of Columbia. As such an advisory organization, we provide statistical, actuarial, policy language development and related products and services to property/casualty insurers, including advisory prospective loss costs, other prospective cost information, manual rules and policy language. We also serve as an officially designated statistical agent of state insurance regulators to collect policy-writing and loss statistics of individual insurers and compile that information into reports used by the regulators. 

Many of our products, services and operations as well as insurer use of our services are subject to state rather than federal regulation by virtue of the McCarran-Ferguson Act. As a result, many of our operations and products are subject to review and/or approval by state regulators. Furthermore, our operations involving licensed advisory organization activities are subject to periodic examinations conducted by state regulators and our operations and products are subject to state antitrust and trade practice statutes within or outside state insurance codes, which are typically enforced by state attorneys general and/or insurance regulators. 

Available Information 

We maintain an Investor Relations website on the Internet at investor.verisk.com. We make available free of charge, on or through this website, our annual, quarterly, and current reports and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. To access these, click on the &#8220;Financial Information&#8221; &#8212; &#8220;SEC Filings" link found on our Investor Relations homepage. Verisk trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the ticker symbol &#8220;VRSK.&#8221; Our stock was first publicly traded on October 7, 2009. 

The public may read and copy any materials filed by Verisk with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. 

