 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

OVERVIEW 

We are in the business of discovering, developing, manufacturing and commercializing medicines for serious diseases. We use precision medicine approaches with the goal of creating transformative drugs for patients in specialty markets. Our business is focused on developing and commercializing therapies for the treatment of cystic fibrosis, or CF, and advancing our research and development programs in other indications, while maintaining our financial strength. 

Cystic Fibrosis 

Our goal is twofold: to develop treatment regimens that will provide benefits to as many patients with CF as possible and to enhance those benefits. Our two marketed medicines are ORKAMBI and KALYDECO, which are approved to treat patients with CF who have specific mutations in their cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator, or CFTR, &#32;gene. 

ORKAMBI 

ORKAMBI (lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor) was approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, in July 2015 and by the European Commission in November 2015, for the treatment of patients with CF twelve years of age and older who have two copies (homozygous) of the F508del mutation in their CFTR &#32;gene. We believe that there are approximately 20,500 patients in the United States and European Union currently eligible for treatment with ORKAMBI, of which we believe more than 4,500 patients had begun treatment as of December 31, 2015. We recently completed the first of two Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor for the treatment of patients with CF six to eleven years of age who are homozygous for the F508del mutation in their CFTR &#32;gene. We believe that there are approximately 5,800 patients in the United States and European Union within this patient population. 

KALYDECO 

KALYDECO (ivacaftor) was approved in 2012 in the United States and European Union as a treatment for patients with CF six years of age and older who have the G551D mutation in their CFTR gene. Since 2012, we have increased the number of patients who are being treated with KALYDECO in the United States and non-U.S. markets by expanding the label for KALYDECO to include patients with CF who have additional mutations in their CFTR &#32;gene and to include patients in additional age demographics. We believe that there are approximately 4,000 patients in North America, Europe and Australia who currently are eligible for treatment with KALYDECO. 

CF Development Programs 

We have multiple development programs in the field of CF, including: 

&#8226; 

VX-661, a corrector compound that we are evaluating in a Phase 3 development program in combination with ivacaftor in multiple CF patient populations who have at least one copy of the F508del mutation in their CFTR &#32;gene; 

&#8226; 

VX-371, an investigational epithelial sodium channel, or ENaC, inhibitor, that is being evaluated in a Phase 2 development program and which we exclusively licensed from Parion Sciences, Inc., or Parion, in 2015; and 

&#8226; 

VX-152 and VX-440, two next-generation CFTR corrector compounds that entered Phase 1 clinical trials in the fourth quarter of 2015 and that we plan to evaluate as part of combination treatment regimens. 

Research and Development Programs 

We are engaged in a number of other research and mid- and early-stage development programs, including programs in the areas of oncology, pain and neurology. We plan to continue investing in our research programs and fostering scientific innovation in order to identify and develop transformative medicines with a focus on CF and other genetic diseases, oncology, pain and neurology. We believe that pursuing research in diverse areas allows us to balance the risks inherent in drug development and may provide drug candidates that will form our pipeline in future years. 

CYSTIC FIBROSIS 

Background 

CF is a rare, life-threatening genetic disease affecting approximately 75,000 people in North America, Europe and Australia. CF is caused by a defective or missing CFTR protein resulting from mutations in the CFTR &#32;gene. To develop CF, children must inherit two defective CFTR &#32;genes, which are referred to as alleles - one from each parent. There are more than 1,900 known mutations in the CFTR &#32;gene, some of which result in CF, including two of the most prevalent mutations, the F508del mutation and the G551D mutation. 

The F508del mutation results in a defect in the CFTR protein in which the CFTR protein does not reach the surface of cells in sufficient quantities. The G551D mutation results in a defect in the CFTR protein in which the defective CFTR protein reaches the surface of a cell but does not efficiently transport chloride ions across the cell membrane. The absence of working CFTR proteins results in poor flow of salt and water into and out of cells in a number of organs, including the lungs. As a result, thick, sticky mucus builds up and blocks the passages in many organs, leading to a variety of symptoms. In particular, mucus builds up and clogs the airways in the lungs, causing chronic lung infections and progressive lung damage. Ivacaftor, a CFTR potentiator, keeps the CFTR protein channels on the cell surface open more often, to increase the flow of salt and water into and out of the cell. CFTR correctors, such as lumacaftor, VX-661, VX-152 and VX-440 are believed to help CFTR protein reach the cell surface. We believe that ENaC inhibitors, such as VX-371, may help maintain mucus hydration and accelerate pulmonary mucus clearance. 

We use the brand name for our products when we refer to the product that has been approved and with respect to the indications on the approved label. Otherwise, including in discussions of our CF development programs, we refer to our compounds by their scientific (or generic) name. 

ORKAMBI (lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor) 

ORKAMBI is an orally-administered combination therapy comprised of lumacaftor, a CFTR corrector, and ivacaftor, a CFTR potentiator, that is approved in the United States, European Union and Canada for the treatment of patients with CF twelve years of age and older who are homozygous for the F508del mutation in their CFTR gene. We have submitted regulatory applications seeking approval for lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor in Australia based on TRAFFIC and TRANSPORT, two Phase 3 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trials of lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor that we completed in 2014. 

We recently completed a Phase 3 clinical trial evaluating lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor for the treatment of patients with CF six to eleven years of age who are homozygous for the F508del mutation in their CFTR &#32;gene. The clinical trial, which enrolled 58 patients, met its primary safety endpoint and data from the clinical trial showed that the combination was generally well-tolerated. The most common adverse events were cough, headache, infective pulmonary exacerbation, nasal congestion, abdominal pain, increased sputum and elevated liver enzymes. Two patients (3.4%) discontinued treatment because of adverse events. In the clinical trial improvements in a secondary endpoint measuring pulmonary function, including improvements in percent predicted forced expiratory volume in one second, or ppFEV1, and an exploratory endpoint measuring lung clearance index were observed. Based on these results, we plan to submit a supplemental New Drug Application, or sNDA, to the FDA in the second quarter of 2016 seeking approval for patients with CF six to eleven years of age who are homozygous for the F508del mutation in their CFTR &#32;gene. A second Phase 3 clinical trial evaluating lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor in this same patient population is ongoing. If successful, this clinical trial will be used to support approval of lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor in this patient population in the European Union. The primary endpoint of this six-month clinical trial, which is expected to enroll 200 patients, is absolute change in lung clearance index. 

KALYDECO (ivacaftor) 

KALYDECO (ivacaftor) is an orally-administered CFTR potentiator that is approved in the United States, European Union, Australia and Canada for the treatment of certain patients with CF who have specific mutations in their CFTR gene. In the United States, KALYDECO is approved for the treatment of patients with CF two years of age and older who have one of the following mutations in their CFTR gene: G551D, G178R, S549N, S549R, G551S, G1244E, S1251N, S1255P, G1349D and R117H. In the European Union, KALYDECO is approved for the treatment of patients with CF (i) two years of age and older who have one of the following mutations in their CFTR gene: G551D, G178R, S549N, S549R, G551S, 

G1244E, S1251N, S1255P and G1349D and (ii) eighteen years of age and older who have the R117H mutation in their CFTR gene. 

In October 2015, we submitted an sNDA to the FDA for KALYDECO for patients with CF two years of age and older who have one of 23 residual function mutations. The sNDA was based on preclinical data for ivacaftor in residual function mutations, the established clinical profile of KALYDECO and on previously reported data from an exploratory Phase 2a clinical trial in patients with CF. In February 2016, we received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA regarding the sNDA pursuant to which the FDA determined that it cannot approve the sNDA in its present form. We plan to meet with the FDA regarding the sNDA to determine an appropriate path forward. 

In the first quarter of 2016, we plan to commence a clinical trial for ivacaftor in patients with CF less than two years of age to evaluate the effect of ivacaftor on markers of CF disease in young children. This clinical trial will utilize a weight-based dose of ivacaftor granules that can be mixed in soft foods or liquids. 

VX-661 in Combination with Ivacaftor 

VX-661 is an orally-administered CFTR corrector drug candidate that we are developing in combination with ivacaftor. In the first quarter of 2015, we initiated a Phase 3 development program comprised of four separate clinical trials for VX-661 in combination with ivacaftor in multiple CF patient populations who have at least one copy of the F508del mutation in their CFTR &#32;gene. Details of the patient population and status of each of these clinical trials is as follows: 

&#8226; 

Two copies of the F508del in their CFTR gene : We expect enrollment to be complete in mid-2016 and expect data from this clinical trial by early 2017; 

&#8226; 

One copy of the F508del mutation in their CFTR gene and a second mutation in their CFTR gene that results in a gating defect in the CFTR protein : We expect enrollment to be complete by the end of 2016 and expect data from this clinical trial in the first half of 2017; 

&#8226; 

One copy of the F508del mutation in their CFTR gene and a second mutation in their CFTR gene that results in residual CFTR function : We expect enrollment to be complete by the end of 2016 and expect data from this clinical trial in the first half of 2017; and 

&#8226; 

One copy of the F508del mutation in their CFTR gene and a second mutation that results in minimal CFTR function : We expect enrollment in the first part of this clinical trial to be complete in mid-2016 and an interim futility analysis of efficacy data, which will be conducted by an independent third-party, to be completed by the end of 2016. If supported by data from the first part of this clinical trial, we would subsequently initiate the second part of this clinical trial. 

In addition to evaluating the efficacy of the combination regimen, these four Phase 3 clinical trials will provide safety data on the combination of VX-661 and ivacaftor to support the planned development of a triple combination regimen that includes a next-generation corrector in combination with VX-661 and ivacaftor. 

ENaC Inhibition 

In June 2015, we entered into a collaboration with Parion to develop investigational ENaC inhibitors, including VX-371, for the potential treatment of CF and other pulmonary diseases. Preclinical evaluation in human bronchial epithelial, or HBE, cells from patients with CF who have two copies of the F508del mutation in their CFTR &#32;gene showed that the addition of VX-371 to lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor resulted in an additional increase in both airway surface liquid and cilia beat frequency compared to baseline and to the use of VX-371 or lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor alone. Improvements in airway surface liquid height and cilia beat frequency are believed to be measures of increased hydration of the cell surface. 

VX-371 is being evaluated in an exploratory Phase 2a clinical trial in approximately 120 patients with CF with any mutation in their CFTR &#32;gene, including those who have mutations not expected to respond to ivacaftor alone. The primary endpoint of this clinical trial is safety, and we expect results from this clinical trial in mid-2016. In the first quarter of 2016, we expect to initiate a placebo-controlled Phase 2a clinical trial of VX-371 to evaluate the addition of VX-371 to treatment with ORKAMBI for patients with CF who are homozygous for the F508del mutation in their CFTR &#32;gene. 

Next-generation CFTR Corrector Compound s 

We are developing two next-generation CFTR corrector compounds, VX-152 and VX-440, that we plan to evaluate as part of triple combination treatment regimens. We initiated Phase 1 clinical trials in healthy volunteers of each of VX-152 and VX-440, alone and as part of a triple combination with VX-661 and ivacaftor, in the fourth quarter of 2015. If these clinical trials are successful, we plan to initiate Phase 2 clinical trials of VX-152 or VX-440 as part of a triple combination with VX-661 and ivacaftor in the second half of 2016 in patients with CF who have: 

&#8226; 

Two copies of the F508del mutation in their CFTR &#32;gene; 

&#8226; 

One copy of the F508del mutation in their CFTR &#32;gene and a second mutation in their CFTR &#32;gene that results in minimal CFTR function; and 

&#8226; 

One copy of the F508del mutation in their CFTR &#32;gene and a second mutation in their CFTR &#32;gene that is known to be responsive to ivacaftor. 

In HBE cells with two copies of the F508del mutation in the CFTR &#32;gene, as well as in HBE cells with one copy of the F508del mutation in the CFTR &#32;gene and a second mutation that results in minimal CFTR function, the triple combinations (VX-152/VX-661/ivacaftor and VX-440/VX-661/ivacaftor) resulted in chloride transport (measured as a percent of normal) that was approximately three-fold greater than the use of a lumacaftor/ivacaftor combination in these cells. 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS 

Our approach to project selection and drug design aims to enhance our ability to discover and develop drug candidates by combining transformative insights into the causes of serious diseases with innovative approaches to therapeutics. The approach starts with knowledge of human genetics and human biology, and our ability to develop complex biological assays to query the underlying biology of disease. We leverage our expertise in assay automation, medicinal and process chemistry, modeling and informatics, biomarkers, pharmacology, drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics, toxicology, material sciences and formulation to develop, select and advance drug candidates. We believe that our approach has been validated through our success in moving novel drug candidates into clinical trials and obtaining marketing approvals for ORKAMBI, KALYDECO and INCIVEK (telapravir). Currently, the disease areas that are most advanced in our research labs are: CF and other genetic diseases; DNA repair in cancer; genetically validated targets for pain; and neurological diseases. 

We focus our research activities on developing products that would be prescribed by specialist physicians for the treatment of rare or life-threatening diseases, which are referred to as specialty markets. Driven by these priority disease areas and by insights into the underlying mechanisms whereby diseases develop and progress, we attempt to identify multiple approaches within each indication that, either as a stand-alone therapy or combination therapy, could provide treatment options that are transformational in nature. We select disease areas by mapping our research strengths onto disease areas with high unmet medical need, where there have been breakthrough scientific insights, and where innovative therapeutic approaches are available. 

To augment our internal research programs, we seek to collaborate with biopharmaceutical and technology companies, leading academic research institutions, government laboratories, foundations and other organizations as needed to advance research in our areas of therapeutic interest as well as to access technologies needed to execute on our strategy. We have established such relationships with organizations around the world and intend to extend and leverage that experience to further our research efforts to discover transformational medicines for serious diseases in specialty markets. 

Our research and mid- and early-stage development programs currently are focused on the following areas: 

Oncology 

We have three oncology drug candidates in development that are designed to inhibit DNA repair pathways that are fundamental to the survival and proliferation of certain cancers. 

VX -970 

Our most advanced oncology drug candidate is VX-970, an inhibitor of ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3-related kinase, or ATR. We plan to evaluate VX-970, both alone and and in combination with other cancer therapies, including targeted agents, chemotherapy, radiotherapy and immuno-oncology therapies, in early-stage clinical trials in selected tumor types and patient 

subtypes that are expected to be responsive to ATR inhibition based on biomarker data. We are conducting two Phase 1/2 clinical trials of VX-970 in combination with commonly used DNA-damaging chemotherapies in specific cohorts of triple-negative breast cancer patients and non-small cell lung cancer patients. We expect preliminary data from these clinical trials to be available in 2016. 

We also have entered into cooperative research and development agreements with the National Cancer Institute to evaluate VX-970 across other types of cancers. The first clinical trial conducted pursuant to these agreements is ongoing, and several additional clinical trials are planned in patients who have non-small cell lung, head and neck, bladder, ovarian and other cancers. 

VX-803 and VX-984 

We are in Phase 1 development of two additional oncology drug candidates, VX-803 and VX-984. We are evaluating escalating doses of VX-803, an ATR inhibitor, alone and in combination with chemotherapy in an ongoing Phase 1 clinical trial. We recently initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial of VX-984, an inhibitor of DNA-dependent protein kinase, to evaluate escalating doses of VX-984 alone and in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin. 

Pain 

We have two drug candidates, VX-150 and VX-241, that are designed to inhibit sodium channels involved in pain sensation. In the fourth quarter of 2015, we initiated a Phase 2 clinical trial to evaluate VX-150, an inhibitor of a sodium channel known as NaV 1.8, which is expected to enroll approximately 100 patients who have symptomatic osteoarthritis of the knee. We expect to begin clinical development of VX-241, an inhibitor of a sodium channel known as NaV 1.7, in the first half of 2016. 

Acute Spinal Cord Injury 

We have exclusively licensed VX-210, a drug candidate for the treatment of acute spinal cord injury, from BioAxone BioSciences, Inc. VX-210 is designed to inhibit a protein known as Rho that blocks neural regeneration after injury. We expect to initiate a Phase 2b/3 clinical trial in the first half of 2016 to evaluate the efficacy and safety of VX-210 in patients who have certain acute cervical spinal cord injuries. 

COMMERCIAL ORGANIZATION 

Our commercial organization focuses on supporting sales of ORKAMBI and KALYDECO in the markets where such products are approved. Our sales and marketing organizations are responsible for promoting products to health care providers and obtaining reimbursement for products from third-party payors, including governmental organizations in the United States and non-U.S. markets. 

Our U.S. field-based CF commercial team is comprised of a small number of individuals whom we believe will be sufficient to support future needs. We focus our CF marketing efforts in the United States on a relatively small number of physicians and health care professionals who write most of the prescriptions for CF medicines. Many of these physicians and health care professionals are located at a limited number of accredited centers in the United States focused on the treatment of CF. In international markets, we currently have a small sales force that has been promoting KALYDECO but we expect to increase the size of this sales force moderately as we launch ORKAMBI and continue to expand geographically. 

We market our products through personal interactions with individual physicians, advertising, sending direct mail, public relations activities and other activities. In addition, our government affairs and public policy group advocates for policies that promote life sciences innovation and increase awareness of the diseases on which we are focusing, with state and federal legislatures, government agencies, public health officials and other policy-makers. We also have established programs in the United States that provide our products to qualified uninsured or underinsured patients at no charge or at a reduced charge, based on specific eligibility criteria. 

COLLABORATIONS 

We have entered into collaborations with pharmaceutical and other companies and organizations that provide us financial and other resources, including capabilities in research, development, manufacturing and sales and marketing, and licenses to intellectual property. These collaborations have provided us with drug candidates and/or important financial and non- 

financial resources that have contributed to our products and a number of the drug candidates in our current development pipeline. We may seek to license or acquire drugs, drug candidates and other technologies that have the potential to add to our pipeline or to provide us with new commercial opportunities. In particular, we are focusing on drug candidates for the treatment of patients with CF and other third-party drug candidates that could be developed for specialty markets. Furthermore, we may seek collaborators to support, develop and/or commercialize some of our current drug candidates and/or additional drug candidates that may emerge from our research activities. 

Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Therapeutics Incorporated 

We began working with CFFT in 1998. We entered into a collaboration agreement with CFFT in 2004 and have amended it several times to support research and development activities. We are obligated to pay CFFT tiered royalties ranging from single digits to sub-teens, calculated as a percentage of net sales, on ivacaftor, lumacaftor and VX-661. Under the collaboration agreement, we also are obligated to make a total of two one-time commercial milestone payments upon achievement of certain sales levels for sales of lumacaftor, the first of which was earned in the fourth quarter of 2015 and the second of which we expect to be earned in the first quarter of 2016. 

For ivacaftor, lumacaftor and VX-661, we will have royalty obligations to CFFT until the expiration of patents covering that compound. We have patents in the United States and European Union covering the composition-of-matter of ivacaftor that expire in 2027 and 2025, respectively, subject to potential patent life extensions. We have patents in the United States and European Union covering the composition-of-matter of lumacaftor that expire in 2030 and 2026, respectively, subject to potential patent life extensions. We have patents in the United States and European Union covering the composition-of-matter of VX-661 that expire in 2027 and 2028, respectively, subject to potential patent life extensions. 

Parion Sciences, Inc. 

In June 2015, we entered into a strategic collaboration and license agreement with Parion pursuant to which we are collaborating with Parion to develop ENaC inhibitors, including VX-371 (formerly P-1037) and VX-551 (formerly P-1055), for the potential treatment of CF and other pulmonary diseases. 

We are leading development activities for VX-371 and are responsible for all costs, subject to certain exceptions, related to its development and commercialization. We also will lead development activities for VX-551, which is in pre-clinical development. Under the terms of the agreement, we received worldwide development and commercial rights to VX-371 and VX-551 for the potential treatment of CF and all other pulmonary diseases and have the option to select additional compounds discovered in Parion&#8217;s research program. Parion received an $80.0 million up-front payment and has the potential to receive up to an additional (i) $490.0 million in development and regulatory milestone payments for development of ENaC inhibitors in CF, including $360.0 million related to global filing and approval milestones, (ii) $370.0 million in development and regulatory milestones for VX-371 and VX-551 in non-CF pulmonary indications and (iii) $230.0 million in development and regulatory milestones if we elect to develop an additional ENaC inhibitor from Parion&#8217;s research program. Parion will receive tiered royalties on potential sales of licensed products that range from the low double digits to mid-teens as a percentage of sales. 

We may terminate the agreement upon 90 days&#8217; notice to Parion prior to any licensed product receiving marketing approval or upon 180 days&#8217; notice after a licensed product has received marketing approval. Parion may terminate the agreement upon 30 days&#8217; notice if Vertex experiences a change of control prior to the initiation of the first Phase 3 clinical trial for a licensed product, subject to our right to receive specified royalties on any subsequent commercialization of licensed products. The agreement also may be terminated by either party for a material breach by the other, subject to notice and cure provisions. Unless earlier terminated, the agreement will continue in effect until the expiration of our royalty obligations, which expire on a country-by-country basis on the later of (i) the date the last-to-expire patent covering a licensed product expires or (ii) ten years after the first commercial sale in the country. 

CRISPR Therapeutics AG 

In October 2015, we entered into a strategic collaboration, option and license agreement with CRISPR Therapeutics AG, or CRISPR, and its affiliates to collaborate on the discovery and development of potential new treatments aimed at the underlying genetic causes of human diseases using CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing technology. We have the exclusive right to license up to six CRISPR-Cas9-based targets. In connection with the CRISPR agreement, we paid CRISPR an upfront 

payment of $75.0 million and made a $30.0 million investment in CRISPR pursuant to a convertible loan agreement that converted into preferred stock in January 2016. 

We will fund all of the discovery activities conducted pursuant to the agreement. For potential hemoglobinapathy treatments, including treatments for sickle cell disease, we will share equally with CRISPR all research and development costs and worldwide revenues. For other targets that we elect to license, we would lead all development and global commercialization activities. For each of up to six targets that we elect to license, other than hemoglobinapathy targets, CRISPR has the potential to receive up to $420.0 million in development, regulatory and commercial milestones and royalties on net sales. 

We may terminate the agreement upon 90 days&#8217; notice to CRISPR prior to any product receiving marketing approval or upon 270 days&#8217; notice after a product has received marketing approval. The agreement also may be terminated by either party for a material breach by the other, subject to notice and cure provisions. Unless earlier terminated, the agreement will continue in effect until the expiration of our payment obligations under the agreement. 

BioAxone Biosciences, Inc. 

In October 2014, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with BioAxone. Pursuant to this agreement, we are collaborating with BioAxone on the research, development and commercialization of VX-210 (formerly referred to as Cethrin), a Rho inhibitor controlled by BioAxone, for the treatment of patients who have spinal cord injuries. 

We paid BioAxone initial payments of $10.0 million and BioAxone has the potential to receive up to $90.0 million in milestones and fees, including development and regulatory milestone payments and a license continuation fee. In addition, BioAxone would receive royalties and commercial milestones based on future net product sales, if any. We hold an option to purchase BioAxone at a predetermined price. The option expires on the earliest of (a) the day the FDA accepts a Biologics License Application submission for VX-210, (b) the day we elect to continue the license instead of exercising the option to purchase BioAxone and (c) March 15, 2018, subject to our option to extend this date by one year. We may terminate our agreement with BioAxone upon 90 days&#8217; notice or immediately if we determine that a licensed product is unsafe for administration to humans. The agreement also may be terminated by either party for a material breach by the other or by BioAxone for our inactivity with respect to VX-210, in each case subject to notice and cure provisions. Unless earlier terminated, the agreement will continue until the expiration of our royalty obligations. 

Outlicense Arrangements 

We have entered into various agreements pursuant to which we have outlicensed rights to certain drug candidates to third-party collaborators. Pursuant to these outlicense arrangements, our collaborators become responsible for all costs related to the continued development of such drug candidates and obtain development and commercialization rights to these drug candidates. Depending on the terms of the arrangements, our collaborators may be required to make upfront payments, milestone payments upon the achievement of certain product research and development objectives and/or pay royalties on future sales, if any, of commercial products resulting from the collaboration. 

Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 

In 2014, we entered into an agreement with Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Janssen Inc. Pursuant to this agreement, Janssen Inc. has an exclusive worldwide license to develop and commercialize certain drug candidates for the treatment of influenza, including VX-787. We received non-refundable payments of $35.0 million from Janssen Inc. in 2014 and have the potential to receive development, regulatory and commercial milestone payments as well as royalties on future product sales, if any. Janssen Inc. is responsible for costs related to the development and commercialization of the compounds. Janssen Inc. may terminate the agreement, subject to certain exceptions, upon six months&#8217; notice. 

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 

We actively seek protection for our products and proprietary information by means of U.S. and foreign patents, trademarks and copyrights, as appropriate. In addition, we rely upon trade secret protection and contractual arrangements to protect certain of our proprietary information and products. We have patents and pending patent applications that relate to potential drug targets, compounds we are developing to modulate those targets, methods of making or using those compounds and proprietary elements of our drug discovery platform. 

Much of our technology and many of our processes depend upon the knowledge, experience and skills of key scientific and technical personnel. To protect our rights to our proprietary know-how and technology, we require all employees, as well as our consultants and advisors when feasible, to enter into confidentiality agreements that require disclosure and assignment to us of ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions made by these employees, consultants and advisors in the course of their service to us. 

While we have numerous issued patents and pending patent applications in our patent portfolio, we believe that the patents and patent applications in the United States and the European Union that are the most important to our business are those that claim the composition-of-matter of our drugs and drug candidates that have progressed at least into Phase 3 clinical trials. The following table sets forth the status of such primary patents and patent applications in the United States and the European Union covering the composition-of-matter of these drugs and drug candidates: 

Drug/Drug Candidate 

Status of United States Patent (Anticipated Expiration, Subject to Potential Extensions) 

Status of European Union Patent (Anticipated Expiration, Subject to Potential Extensions) 

Ivacaftor 

Granted (2027) 

Granted (2025) 

Lumacaftor 

Granted (2030) 

Granted (2026) 

VX-661 

Granted (2027) 

Granted (2028) 

We hold issued patents and pending patent applications in the United States, and in foreign countries we deem appropriate, claiming intellectual property developed as part of our research and development programs. In addition to the composition-of-matter patents and patent applications listed above, we hold or have exclusive licenses to the following intellectual property: 

&#8226; 

U.S. and foreign patent applications covering CF potentiators, correctors and ENaC inhibitors, including ivacaftor, lumacaftor, VX-661, VX-371, VX-152 and VX-440 and many other related compounds, and the use of those potentiators, correctors and ENaC inhibitors to treat CF. 

&#32;&#8226; 

U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications covering VX-970, VX-803 and VX-984 and the use of VX-970, VX-803 and VX-984 to treat oncology indications. 

&#32;&#8226; 

U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications covering VX-150 and VX-241 and the use of VX-150 and VX-241 to treat pain indications. 

&#32;&#8226; 

U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications covering VX-210 and the use of VX-210 to treat neurology indications. 

&#32;&#8226; 

U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications covering the manufacture, pharmaceutical compositions, related solid forms, formulations, dosing regimens and methods of use of these compounds, including ivacaftor and lumacaftor. 

We cannot be certain, however, that issued patents will be enforceable or provide adequate protection or that pending patent applications will result in issued patents. 

From time to time we enter into non-exclusive license agreements for proprietary third-party technology used in connection with our research activities. These license agreements typically provide for the payment by us of a license fee, but may also include terms providing for milestone payments or royalties for the development and/or commercialization of our drug products arising from the related research. 

Ivacaftor was granted orphan drug status in the United States and the European Union. We have a U.S. patent that covers the composition-of-matter of ivacaftor that we expect will provide intellectual property protection in the United States through its expiration date in 2027. We have a European patent that covers the composition-of-matter of ivacaftor that we expect will provide intellectual property protection in the European Union through its expiration date in 2025, subject to potential extension. We are entitled to orphan drug exclusivity for ivacaftor in the United States and the European Union, which means that the FDA may not approve another application to market ivacaftor for the same indication for a period of seven years following approval, and the EMA cannot accept an MAA for a drug similar to ivacaftor for a period of ten years following approval. As a result of the orphan drug exclusivity, even if a competitor successfully challenges the ivacaftor patents, it could not obtain approval from the FDA to market ivacaftor in the United States for the treatment of patients who 

have one of the mutations to the CFTR &#32;gene for which KALYDECO is currently approved until 2019, or submit an MAA in the European Union for the treatment of patients who have one of the mutations to the CFTR &#32;gene for which KALYDECO is currently approved until 2022, except in very limited circumstances. 

Lumacaftor, and the fixed dose combination of lumacaftor and ivacaftor, were granted orphan drug status in the United States. We have patents in the United States and European Union that cover the composition of matter of lumacaftor that we expect will provide intellectual property protection in these jurisdictions through their expiration dates in 2030 and 2026, respectively, subject to potential extension. 

VX-661 was granted orphan drug status in the United States and the European Union. We have patents in the United States and European Union that cover the composition of matter of VX-661 that we expect will provide intellectual property protection in these jurisdictions through their expiration dates in 2027 and 2028, respectively, subject to potential extension. 

MANUFACTURING 

Manufacturing Approach and Philosophy 

As we market and sell our approved products and advance our drug candidates through clinical development toward commercialization, we continue to build and maintain our supply chain and quality assurance resources. We rely on internal capabilities and an international network of third parties to manufacture and distribute our products for commercial sale and post-approval clinical trials and to manufacture and distribute our drug candidates for clinical trials. Wherever possible, we seek to establish multiple suppliers for each raw material and step in the manufacturing process, however our supply chain includes a single-source manufacturer for (i) one step in the ivacaftor manufacturing process and (ii) the manufacture of the oral granule formulation of KALYDECO that is used for patients with CF two to five years of age. 

We expect that we will continue for the foreseeable future to rely on third parties to meet most of our commercial supply needs and a significant portion of our clinical supply needs. We have established our own small-scale manufacturing capabilities, which we use for clinical trial supplies and as an additional source for commercial supplies. 

Our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step international endeavor. Third-party contract manufacturers, including some in China, supply us with raw materials, and convert these raw materials into drug substance, and convert the drug substance into final dosage form. Establishing and managing this global supply chain for each of our drugs and drug candidates requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous third-party contractual relationships. 

We have developed systems and processes to track, monitor and oversee our third-party manufacturers&#8217; activities, including a quality assurance program intended to ensure that our third-party manufacturers comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP. We regularly evaluate the performance of our third-party manufacturers with the objective of confirming their continuing capabilities to meet our needs efficiently and economically. Manufacturing facilities, both foreign and domestic, are subject to inspections by or under the authority of the FDA and other U.S. and foreign government authorities. 

Manufacture of KALYDECO (ivacaftor) 

We obtain ivacaftor to meet our commercial and clinical supply needs through a third-party manufacturing network. A disruption in the commercial supply of KALYDECO would have a significant effect on patients, our business and our product revenues. A disruption in the clinical supply of ivacaftor could delay the completion of clinical trials and/or affect timelines for submitting regulatory filings. 

Manufacture of ORKAMBI (lumacaftor/ivacaftor) 

We have developed several manufacturing processes to produce commercial quantities of ORKAMBI, including a process utilizing continuous manufacturing technology as well as a batch manufacturing process. We have established manufacturing capabilities at our third-party manufacturer in the United Kingdom that is producing commercial quantities of ORKAMBI using a batch manufacturing process we designed. We have established continuous manufacturing capabilities and obtained validation for these capabilities at our facility located in Boston, Massachusetts. Continuous process drug product manufacturing may result in reduced cost, reduced development and production timelines and increased market 

response flexibility. While continuous process manufacturing has been used in many industries, we believe that we are the first company to obtain FDA approval for a fully-continuous drug product manufacturing process. 

Manufacture of VX-661/Ivacaftor 

We are using both a batch manufacturing process and a continuous drug product manufacturing process to obtain a supply of VX-661 tablets to be used in our Phase 3 clinical trials of VX-661 in combination with ivacaftor. If we successfully complete development and obtain approval for VX-661 in combination with ivacaftor, we plan to produce our commercial supply of VX-661 using a continuous drug product manufacturing process. 

COMPETITION 

The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive research efforts, rapid technological progress and intense competition. There are many public and private companies, including pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, engaged in developing products for the indications our drugs are approved to treat and the therapeutic areas we are targeting with our research and development activities. Potential competitors also include academic institutions, government agencies, other public and private research organizations and charitable venture philanthropy organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and/or establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do. We face competition based on the safety and efficacy of our products and drug candidates, the timing and scope of regulatory approvals, the availability and cost of supply, marketing and sales capabilities, reimbursement coverage, price, patent protection and other factors. Our competitors may develop or commercialize more effective, safer or more affordable products than we are able to develop or commercialize or obtain more effective patent protection. As a result, our competitors may commercialize products more rapidly or effectively than we do, which would adversely affect our competitive position, the likelihood that our drug candidates, if approved, would achieve and maintain market acceptance and our ability to generate meaningful revenues from our products. Future competitive products may render our products, or future products, obsolete or noncompetitive. 

Cystic Fibrosis 

An increasing number of companies are seeking to identify and develop drug candidates for the treatment of CF, including companies such as Concert Pharmaceuticals, Genzyme, which is a division of Sanofi, Novartis, Pfizer, ProQR Therapeutics, PTC Therapeutics, Shire and several private companies. Although we are the first company to successfully develop drugs that treat the underlying cause of CF, ORKAMBI and KALYDECO are collectively approved to treat only a portion of patients with CF. Our competitors have research and development programs directed at identifying and developing CFTR potentiators, CFTR correctors, ENaC inhibitors and drug candidates with other mechanisms of action or that utilize new therapeutic approaches that seek to address the underlying cause of CF. Our success in rapidly developing and commercializing KALYDECO and ORKAMBI may increase the resources that our competitors allocate to the development of these potential treatments for CF. If one or more competing therapies are successfully developed as a treatment for patients with CF, our revenues from ORKAMBI, KALYDECO and/or our other CF drug candidates, if then approved, could face significant competitive pressure. 

GOVERNMENT REGULATION 

The research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, approval, labeling, packaging, storage, safety monitoring, record keeping, promotion, advertising, distribution and marketing of our products and drug candidates are subject to extensive regulation by United States and foreign governmental authorities. 

United States Government Regulation 

New Drug Application Approval Processes 

In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs, including small molecules, under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or the FDCA, and implementing regulations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent compliance with applicable federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. requirements at any time during the drug development process, approval process or after approval, may subject us to administrative or judicial sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. These sanctions could include: 

&#8226; 

refusal to approve or delay in review of pending applications; 

&#8226; 

withdrawal of an approval or the implementation of limitations on a previously approved indication for use; 

&#8226; 

imposition of a clinical hold, a risk mitigation and evaluation strategy or other safety-related limitations; 

&#8226; 

warning letters or &#8220;untitled letters&#8221;; 

&#8226; 

product seizures; 

&#8226; 

total or partial suspension of production or distribution; or 

&#8226; 

injunctions, fines, disgorgement, or civil or criminal penalties. 

The process required by the FDA before a drug may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: 

&#8226; 

completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies conducted according to Good Laboratory Practices, or GLP, and other applicable regulations; 

&#8226; 

submission to the FDA of an investigational new drug, or IND, application, which must become effective before clinical trials in the United States may begin; 

&#8226; 

performance of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials according to Good Clinical Practices, or GCP, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug for its intended use; 

&#8226; 

submission to the FDA of an NDA; 

&#8226; 

satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product will be produced to assess compliance with cGMP to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the product&#8217;s identity, strength, quality and purity; and 

&#8226; 

FDA review and approval of the NDA. 

Once a drug candidate is identified for development, it enters the preclinical testing stage. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, as well as animal pharmacology and toxicology studies. An IND sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, to the FDA as part of the IND. Preclinical or nonclinical testing typically continues even after the IND is submitted. In addition to including the results of the preclinical studies, the IND also will include a protocol detailing, among other things, the objectives of the initial clinical trial and the parameters to be used in monitoring safety. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, within the 30-day time period, places the IND on clinical hold. If an IND is placed on clinical hold, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before clinical trials can begin. A clinical hold may occur at any time during the life of an IND, and may affect one or more specific clinical trials or all clinical trials conducted under the IND. 

All clinical trials must be conducted under the supervision of one or more qualified investigators in accordance with GCP. They must be conducted under protocols detailing the objectives of the trial, dosing procedures, subject selection and exclusion criteria and the safety and effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol and any amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND, and progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and more frequently in other situations, including the occurrence of serious adverse events. An 

institutional review board, or IRB, at each institution participating in the clinical trial must review and approve the protocol and any amendments before a clinical trial commences or continues at that institution, approve the information regarding the clinical trial and the consent form that must be provided to each trial subject or his or her legal representative, and monitor the clinical trial until completed and otherwise comply with IRB regulations. 

Clinical trials typically are conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap or be combined: 

&#8226; 

Phase 1. The drug initially is introduced into healthy human subjects and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and elimination. In the case of some drug candidates for severe or life-threatening diseases, such as cancer, especially when the drug candidate may be inherently too toxic to ethically administer to healthy volunteers, the initial human testing is often conducted in patients. 

&#8226; 

Phase 2. Clinical trials are initiated in a limited patient population intended to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the drug candidate for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage. 

&#8226; 

Phase 3. Clinical trials are undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy and safety in an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites. These clinical trials are intended to establish the overall risk-benefit ratio of the drug candidate and provide an adequate basis for regulatory approval and product labeling. 

Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 testing may not be completed successfully within any specified period, if at all. The FDA or the sponsor may suspend a clinical trial at any time for a variety of reasons, including a finding that the healthy volunteers or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB&#8217;s requirements or if the drug candidate has been associated with unexpected serious harm to healthy volunteers or patients. 

We estimate that it generally takes 10 to 15 years, or possibly longer, to discover, develop and bring to market a new pharmaceutical product in the United States, as outlined below: 

Phase 

Estimated Duration 

Discovery 

2 to 4 years 

Preclinical 

1 to 2 years 

Phase 1 

1 to 2 years 

Phase 2 

2 to 4 years 

Phase 3 

2 to 4 years 

FDA approval 

6 months to 2 years 

During the development of a new drug, sponsors are given opportunities to meet with the FDA at certain points. These points may be prior to submission of an IND, at the end of Phase 2 testing, and before an NDA is submitted. Meetings at other times may be requested. These meetings can provide an opportunity for the sponsor to share information about the data gathered to date, for the FDA to provide advice, and for the sponsor and FDA to reach agreement on the next phase of development. Sponsors typically use the end of Phase 2 meeting to discuss their Phase 2 clinical results and present their plans for the pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial that they believe will support approval of the drug candidate. 

As part of the development process, companies usually complete animal safety studies and also must develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the drug and finalize a process for manufacturing the product in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the drug candidate, and the manufacturer must develop methods for testing the quality, purity and potency of the final products. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the drug candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf-life. 

The results of drug development, preclinical studies and clinical trials, along with descriptions of the manufacturing process, analytical tests conducted on the chemistry of the drug candidate, proposed labeling and other relevant information are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA requesting approval to market the drug candidate. The FDA reviews each NDA submitted to ensure that it is sufficiently complete for substantive review before it accepts it for filing. It may request additional information rather than accept an NDA for filing. 

Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review. The FDA may not approve an NDA if the applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied or may require additional clinical or other data. Even if such data are submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. The FDA reviews an NDA to determine, among other things, whether a drug candidate is safe and effective for its intended use and whether its manufacturing is cGMP-compliant to assure and preserve the drug candidate&#8217;s identity, strength, quality and purity. The FDA may refer the NDA to an advisory committee for review and recommendation as to whether the NDA should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it generally follows such recommendations. Before approving an NDA, the FDA will inspect the facility or facilities where the drug candidate is manufactured and tested. 

The FDA may require, as a condition of approval, restricted distribution and use, enhanced labeling, special packaging or labeling, expedited reporting of certain adverse events, pre-approval of promotional materials, restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising or commitments to conduct additional research post-approval. The FDA will issue a complete response letter if the agency decides not to approve the NDA in its present form. The complete response letter usually describes all of the specific deficiencies in the NDA identified by the FDA. If a complete response letter is issued, the applicant may either resubmit the NDA, addressing all of the deficiencies identified in the letter, or withdraw the application. 

Biologics License Application Process 

Certain of our drug candidates may be regulated by the FDA under the FDCA and the Public Health Service Act as biologics. Biologics can present special safety, efficacy and manufacturing challenges that may differ from those present in the regulation of small molecule drugs. As such, while similar to the NDA review process described above, in lieu of filing an NDA, biologics require the submission of a Biologics License Application, or BLA, and approval of such BLA by the FDA prior to being marketed in the U.S. 

Expedited Review and Approval 

The FDA has various programs, including Fast Track, priority review, and accelerated approval, that are intended to expedite or simplify the process for reviewing drug candidates, and/or provide for approval on the basis of surrogate endpoints. Even if a drug candidate qualifies for one or more of these programs, the FDA may later decide that the drug candidate no longer meets the conditions for qualification or that the time period for FDA review or approval will not be shortened. Generally, drug candidates that may be eligible for these programs are those for serious or life-threatening conditions, those with the potential to address unmet medical needs, and those that offer meaningful benefits over existing treatments. For example, Fast Track is a process designed to facilitate the development, and expedite the review of drug candidates to treat serious diseases and fill an unmet medical need. Priority review is designed to give drug candidates that offer major advances in treatment or provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists an initial review within six months as compared to a standard review time of ten months. Although Fast Track and priority review do not affect the standards for approval, the FDA will attempt to facilitate early and frequent meetings with a sponsor of a Fast Track designated drug candidate and expedite review of the application for a drug candidate designated for priority review. Accelerated approval provides an earlier approval of drugs that treat serious diseases, and that fill an unmet medical need based on a surrogate endpoint, which is a laboratory measurement or physical sign used as an indirect or substitute measurement representing a clinically meaningful outcome. As a condition of approval, the FDA may require that a sponsor of a product receiving accelerated approval perform post-marketing clinical trials. 

In July 2012, the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA, was enacted, amending the FDCA. As part of FDASIA, Congress created a drug designation called &#8220;Breakthrough Therapy.&#8221; This designation is intended to facilitate expedited development and review of a compound which, alone or in combination with one or more other compounds, is intended to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and for which preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the compound may demonstrate substantial clinical improvement over existing therapies. Breakthrough Therapy designation may be requested at the filing of, or as an amendment to, an IND based on criteria established by the FDA. 

Actions identified in FDASIA that may expedite the development and review of a Breakthrough Therapy include, as appropriate: holding meetings with the sponsor and the review team throughout the development of the drug; involving senior managers and experienced review staff, as appropriate, in a collaborative, cross-disciplinary review; and assigning a cross-disciplinary project lead for the FDA review team to facilitate efficient review of the development program and serve as 

a scientific liaison between the review team and the sponsor. We expect that over time the FDA will develop regulations and/or provide additional guidance regarding the development of drug candidates that receive Breakthrough Therapy designation. 

Post-approval Requirements 

Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in restrictions on the product or complete withdrawal of the product from the market. In addition, under the FDCA the sponsor of an approved drug in the United States may not promote that drug for unapproved, or off-label, uses, although a physician may prescribe a drug for an off-label use in accordance with the practice of medicine. After approval, some types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes and additional labeling claims, are subject to further FDA review and approval. In addition, the FDA may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the effect of approved products that have been commercialized, and the FDA has the power to prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of these post-marketing programs. 

Products manufactured or distributed by us pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things: 

&#8226; 

record-keeping requirements; 

&#8226; 

reporting of adverse experiences with the product; 

&#8226; 

providing the FDA with updated safety and efficacy information; 

&#8226; 

drug sampling and distribution requirements; 

&#8226; 

notifying the FDA and gaining its approval of specified manufacturing or labeling changes; 

&#8226; 

complying with certain electronic records and signature requirements; and 

&#8226; 

complying with FDA promotion and advertising requirements. 

Drug manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved products are required to register with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and some state agencies for compliance with cGMP and other laws. 

We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the production of our products. Future FDA and state inspections may identify compliance issues at the facilities of our contract manufacturers that may disrupt manufacture or distribution of our products, or require substantial resources to correct. 

From time to time, new legislation is enacted that changes the statutory provisions governing the approval, manufacturing and marketing of products regulated by the FDA. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance often are revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed. 

Patent Term Restoration and Marketing Exclusivity 

Depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of FDA approval of the use of our drugs, some of our United States patents may be eligible for limited patent term extension under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. The Hatch-Waxman Amendments permit a patent restoration term of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review process. However, patent term restoration cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the product&#8217;s approval date. The patent term restoration period is generally one-half the time between the later of the effective date of an IND or the issuance date of the patent, and the submission date of an NDA, plus the time between the submission date of an NDA and the approval of that application. Only one patent applicable to an approved product is eligible for the extension and the extension must be applied for prior to expiration of the patent. The United States Patent and Trademark Office, in consultation with the FDA, reviews and approves the application for any patent term extension or restoration. In the future, we may apply for restorations of patent term for some of our currently owned or licensed patents to add patent life beyond 

their current expiration date, depending on the expected length of clinical trials and other factors involved in the submission of the relevant NDA. 

Market exclusivity provisions under the FDCA also can delay the submission or the approval of certain applications. The FDCA provides a five-year period of non-patent marketing exclusivity within the United States to the first applicant to gain approval of an NDA for a new chemical entity. For a new chemical entity that qualifies for Orphan Drug designation, the FDCA provides such marketing exclusivity for a period of seven years. A product is a new chemical entity if the FDA has not previously approved any other new product containing the same active moiety, which is the molecule responsible for the action of the drug substance. During the exclusivity period, the FDA may not accept for review an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, or a 505(b)(2) NDA submitted by another company for another version of such product where the applicant does not own or have a legal right of reference to all the data required for approval. However, an application may be submitted after four years if it contains a certification of patent invalidity or non-infringement. The FDCA also provides three years of marketing exclusivity for an NDA, 505(b)(2) NDA or supplement to an existing NDA if new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability studies, that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are deemed by the FDA to be essential to the approval of the application, for example, for new indications, dosages, or strengths of an existing drug. This three-year exclusivity covers only the conditions associated with the new clinical investigations and does not prohibit the FDA from approving ANDAs for drugs containing the original active agent. 

Pediatric Exclusivity 

Section 505A of the FDCA, as amended by the FDA Amendments Act of 2007, permits certain drugs to obtain an additional six months of exclusivity, if the sponsor submits information requested in writing by the FDA, or a written request, relating to the use of the drug in children. The FDA may not issue a written request for clinical trials on unapproved or approved indications or where it determines that information relating to the use of a drug in a pediatric population, or part of the pediatric population, may not produce health benefits in that population. 

Exclusivity of Biologics 

Biologics are entitled to exclusivity under the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, which was passed as Title VII to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, which we refer to as the ACA. The law provides a pathway for approval of biosimilars following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic plus any extension term for pediatrics as discussed above. Historically, a biologic approved under a BLA was not subject to the generic drug review and approval provisions of the FDCA. However, the ACA created a regulatory pathway for the abbreviated approval for biological products that are demonstrated to be &#8220;biosimilar&#8221; or &#8220;interchangeable&#8221; with an FDA-approved biological product. In order to meet the standard of interchangeability, a sponsor must demonstrate that the biosimilar product can be expected to produce the same clinical result as the reference product, and for a product that is administered more than once, that the risk of switching between the reference product and biosimilar product is not greater than the risk of maintaining the patient on the reference product. Such biosimilars would reference biological products approved in the United States. The law establishes a period of 12 years of data exclusivity for reference products, which protects the data in the original BLA by prohibiting sponsors of biosimilars from gaining FDA approval based in part on reference to data in the original BLA. 

Foreign Regulation 

In addition to regulations in the United States, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of our products. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a drug candidate, we must obtain approval by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries or economic areas, such as the European Union, before we can commence clinical trials or market products in those countries or areas. The approval process and requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from place to place, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. 

Under European Union regulatory systems, a company may submit marketing authorization applications either under a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure, which is compulsory for medicines produced by biotechnology or those medicines intended to treat AIDS, cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, or diabetes and optional for those medicines that are highly innovative, provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. The decentralized procedure provides for approval by one or more &#8220;concerned&#8221; member states based on an assessment of an application performed by one member state, known as the &#8220;reference&#8221; member state. 

Under the decentralized approval procedure, an applicant submits an application, or dossier, and related materials to the reference member state and concerned member states. The reference member state prepares a draft assessment and drafts of the related materials within 120 days after receipt of a valid application. Within 90 days of receiving the reference member state&#8217;s assessment report, each concerned member state must decide whether or not to approve the assessment report and related materials. If a member state does not recognize the marketing authorization, the disputed points are eventually referred to the European Commission, whose decision is binding on all member states. 

Orphan Drug Designation 

Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drug candidates intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 people in the United States, or more than 200,000 people in the United States and for which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making available in the United States a drug for this type of disease or condition will be recovered from sales in the United States for that drug. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an NDA. After the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in or shorten the duration of the regulatory review and approval process. KALYDECO, ORKAMBI and VX-661 have been granted designation as orphan drugs by the FDA. 

If a drug candidate that has orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for that drug for the disease for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same indication, except in very limited circumstances, for seven years. Orphan drug exclusivity, however, also could block the approval of our drug candidates for seven years if a competitor first obtains approval of the same product as defined by the FDA or if our drug candidate is determined to be contained within the competitor&#8217;s product for the same indication or disease. 

As in the United States, we may apply for designation of a drug candidate as an orphan drug for the treatment of a specific indication in the European Union before the application for marketing authorization is made. Orphan drugs in Europe enjoy economic and marketing benefits, including up to 10 years of market exclusivity for the approved indication unless another applicant can show that its product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior to the orphan-designated product. 

The FDA and foreign regulators expect holders of exclusivity for orphan drugs, such as KALYDECO, to ensure the availability of sufficient quantities of their orphan drugs to meet the needs of patients. Failure to do so could result in the withdrawal of marketing exclusivity for the orphan drug. 

Reimbursement 

Sales of our products depend, to a large degree, on the extent to which our products will be covered by third-party payors, such as government health programs, commercial insurance and managed health care organizations. These third-party payors increasingly are reducing reimbursements for medical products and services. Additionally, the containment of health care costs has become a priority of federal and state governments, and the prices of drugs have been a focus in this effort. The U.S. government, state legislatures and foreign governments have shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products. Adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could limit our revenues. Decreases in third-party reimbursement for a product or a decision by a third-party payor to not cover a product could reduce physician usage of the product. 

The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, established the Medicare Part D program to provide a voluntary prescription drug benefit to Medicare beneficiaries. Under Part D, Medicare beneficiaries may enroll in prescription drug plans offered by private entities, which will provide coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. Unlike Medicare Part A and B, Part D coverage is not standardized. Part D prescription drug plan sponsors are not required to pay for all covered Part D drugs, and each drug plan can develop its own drug formulary that identifies which drugs it will cover and at what tier or level. However, Part D prescription drug formularies must include drugs within each therapeutic category and class of covered Part D drugs, though not necessarily all the drugs in each category or class. Any formulary used by a Part D prescription drug plan must be developed and reviewed by a pharmacy and therapeutic committee. Government payment for some of the costs of prescription drugs may increase demand for products for which we receive marketing approval. However, any negotiated prices for our products covered by a Part D 

prescription drug plan likely will be lower than the prices we might otherwise obtain. Moreover, while the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own payment rates. Any reduction in payment that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from non-governmental payors. 

The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provides funding for the federal government to compare the effectiveness of different treatments for the same illness. A plan for the research will be developed by the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality and the National Institutes of Health, and periodic reports on the status of the research and related expenditures will be made to the U.S. Congress. Although the results of the comparative effectiveness studies are not intended to mandate coverage policies for public or private payors, it is not clear what effect, if any, the research will have on the sales of our products. It is possible that comparative effectiveness research demonstrating benefits of a competitor&#8217;s product could adversely affect the sales of our products. If third-party payors do not consider our products to be cost-effective compared to other available therapies, they may not cover our products as a benefit under their plans or, if they do, the level of payment may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. 

The ACA was enacted in March 2010 and is designed to expand coverage for the uninsured while at the same time containing overall health care costs. With regard to pharmaceutical products, among other things, the ACA is designed to expand and increase industry rebates for drugs covered under Medicaid programs, impose an annual fee on branded pharmaceutical manufacturers and make changes to the coverage requirements under the Medicare Part D program. The branded prescription drug fee is not tax deductible. We cannot predict all of the effects of the ACA on pharmaceutical companies as many of the ACA reforms require the promulgation of detailed regulations implementing the statutory provisions, which has not yet occurred. 

In Europe and many other foreign countries, the success of ORKAMBI, KALYDECO and of any other drug candidates we may develop, depends largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement, because in many foreign countries patients are unable to access prescription pharmaceutical products that are not reimbursed by their governments. Negotiating reimbursement rates in foreign countries can delay the commercialization of a pharmaceutical product and generally results in a reimbursement rate that is lower than the net price that companies can obtain for the same product in the United States. 

In some countries, such as Germany and France, commercial sales of a new product can begin while the reimbursement rate that a company will receive in future periods is under discussion. In other countries, a company must complete the reimbursement discussions prior to the commencement of commercial sales of the pharmaceutical product. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of drugs for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of drugs for human use. A member state may approve a specific price for the drug or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the drug on the market. Recently, many countries in the European Union have increased the amount of discounts required on pharmaceuticals and these efforts could continue as countries attempt to manage healthcare expenditures, especially in light of the severe fiscal and debt crises experienced by many countries in the European Union. There can be no assurance that any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for pharmaceutical products will allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements for any of our products. 

Other United States Regulations 

Pharmaceutical companies also are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care &#8220;fraud and abuse,&#8221; including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws, and the reporting of payments to physicians and teaching hospitals. 

Anti-kickback Laws 

U.S. federal laws prohibit fraud and abuse involving state and federal health care programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. These laws are interpreted broadly and enforced aggressively by various state and federal agencies, including the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services, or CMS, the Department of Justice, the Office of Inspector General for HHS and various state agencies. These anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, arranging for or recommending of an item or service that is reimbursable, in whole or in part, by a federal health care program. Remuneration is broadly defined to include anything of value, such as, cash payments, gifts or gift certificates, discounts, or the furnishing of services, supplies or equipment. The anti-kickback laws are broad and prohibit many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the health care industry. 

The penalties for violating the anti-kickback laws can be severe. The sanctions include criminal and civil penalties, and possible exclusion from the federal health care programs. Many states have adopted laws similar to the federal anti-kickback laws, and some apply to items and services reimbursable by any payor, including third-party payors. 

State and Federal Prohibitions on False Claims 

The federal False Claims Act imposes liability on any person or entity that, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment to the federal government. Under the False Claims Act, a person acts knowingly if he has actual knowledge of the information or acts in deliberate ignorance or in reckless disregard of the truth or falsity of the information. Specific intent to defraud is not required. Provisions of the False Claims Act allow a private individual to bring an action on behalf of the federal government and to share in any amounts paid by the defendant to the government in connection with the action. The number of filings under these provisions has increased significantly in recent years. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties for each false claim. Conduct that violates the False Claims Act may also lead to exclusion from the federal health care programs. Given the number of claims likely to be at issue, potential damages under the False Claims Act for even a single inappropriate arrangement could be significant. In addition, various states have enacted similar laws modeled after the False Claims Act that apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state health care programs, and, in several states, such laws apply to claims submitted to all payors. 

Federal Prohibitions on Health Care Fraud and False Statements Related to Health Care Matters 

Under the administrative simplification provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and state laws there are numerous regulations for protecting the privacy and security of protected health information. Additional administrative simplification provisions created the following federal crimes: health care fraud, false statements relating to health care matters, theft or embezzlement in connection with a health benefit program and obstruction of criminal investigation of health care offenses. The health care fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program, including a private insurer. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing, or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items, or services. The theft or embezzlement statute prohibits knowingly and willfully embezzling, stealing or otherwise converting or misapplying the money or property of a health care benefit program. The obstruction of criminal investigations of health care offenses statute prohibits willfully preventing, obstructing, misleading or delaying the communication of information and records relating to a violation of a federal health care offense to a criminal investigator. A violation of any of these laws is a felony and may result in fines, or exclusion from the federal health care programs. 

Physician Payment Sunshine Act 

The Physician Payment Sunshine Act will require pharmaceutical manufacturers to report annually to the Secretary of HHS payments or other transfers of value made by that entity to physicians and teaching hospitals. In February 2013, regulations were released that contain detailed guidance regarding the information that must be collected and reported. We were required to collect information regarding such payments starting in August 2013 and were required to begin reporting such information in March 2014. Over the next several years, we will need to continue to dedicate significant resources to enhance our systems and processes in order to comply with these regulations. Failure to comply with the reporting requirements would result in significant civil monetary penalties. Similar laws have been enacted or are under consideration 

in foreign jurisdictions, including France which has adopted the Loi Bertrand , or French Sunshine Act, which became effective in 2013. 

The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 

The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. In many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign government official for purposes of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. 

Other Regulations 

In addition to the statutes and regulations described above, we also are subject to regulation in the United States under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations, now or hereafter in effect. 

EMPLOYEES 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 1,950 employees, as compared to approximately 1,830 employees as of December 31, 2014 . Of these employees, approximately 1,600 were based in the United States, approximately 275 were based in Europe and approximately 75 were based in Canada. Our scientific staff members have diversified experience and expertise in molecular and cell biology, biochemistry, synthetic organic chemistry, protein X-ray crystallography, protein nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, microbiology, computational chemistry, biophysical chemistry, medicinal chemistry, clinical pharmacology and clinical medicine. Our clinical development personnel have extensive expertise in designing and executing clinical trials. Employees in our commercial organization have extensive experience in selling and marketing pharmaceutical products as well as seeking reimbursement from government and third-party payors for pharmaceutical products. Our employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, except for a small number of employees in ex-U.S. countries. Science magazine named Vertex as one of its top employers in the life sciences in each of the last five years. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. 

OTHER MATTERS 

Financial Information and Significant Customers 

Financial information about (i) our net product revenues and other revenues generated in the principal geographic regions in which we operate and our significant customers is set forth in Note T, &#8220;Segment Information,&#8221; &#32;to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, (ii) net income (loss) per share attributable to Vertex common shareholders and our total assets are provided in our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and (iii) our research and development expenses in each of the last three fiscal years and our deconsolidation of Alios as of December 31, 2014 is provided in Item 7, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#8221; A discussion of the risks attendant to our international operations is set forth in the &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Information Available on the Internet 

Our internet address is www.vrtx.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, are available to you free of charge through the &#8220;Investors-SEC Filings&#8221; section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after those materials have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Corporate Information 

Vertex was incorporated in Massachusetts in 1989, and our principal executive offices are located at 50 Northern Avenue Boston, Massachusetts 02210. 

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

The names, ages and positions held by our executive officers and directors are as follows: 

Name 

&#160; 

Age 

Position 

Jeffrey M. Leiden, M.D., Ph.D. 

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President 

David Altshuler, M.D., Ph.D. 

Executive Vice President, Global Research and Chief Scientific Officer 

Stuart A. Arbuckle 

Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer 

Jeffrey A. Chodakewitz, M.D. 

Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development and Medical Affairs, and Chief Medical Officer 

Michael Parini, J.D. 

Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer 

Amit K. Sachdev, J.D. 

Executive Vice President, Global Government Strategy, Market Access and Value 

Ian F. Smith 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Paul M. Silva 

Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller 

Sangeeta M. Bhatia, M.D., Ph.D. 

Director 

Joshua S. Boger, Ph.D. 

Director 

Terrence C. Kearney 

Director 

Yuchun Lee 

Director 

Margaret G. McGlynn 

Director 

Bruce I. Sachs 

Director 

Elaine S. Ullian 

Director 

William Young 

Director 

Dr. Leiden is our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President. He has held the positions of Chief Executive Officer and President since February 2012 after joining us as CEO Designee in December 2011. He has been a member of our Board of Directors since July 2009, the Chairman of our Board of Directors since May 2012, and served as our lead independent director from October 2010 through December 2011. Dr. Leiden was a Managing Director at Clarus Ventures, a life sciences venture capital firm, from 2006 through January 2012. Dr. Leiden was President and Chief Operating Officer of Abbott Laboratories, Pharmaceuticals Products Group, and a member of the Board of Directors of Abbott Laboratories from 2001 to 2006. From 1987 to 2000, Dr. Leiden held several academic appointments, including the Rawson Professor of Medicine and Pathology and Chief of Cardiology and Director of the Cardiovascular Research Institute at the University of Chicago, the Elkan R. Blout Professor of Biological Sciences at the Harvard School of Public Health, and Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School. He is an elected member of both the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences. Dr. Leiden is a senior advisor to Clarus Ventures. Dr. Leiden serves as a director of Quest Diagnostics Inc., a medical diagnostics company, and Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company, an insurance company. Dr. Leiden was a director and the non-executive Vice Chairman of the board of Shire plc, a specialty biopharmaceutical company, from 2006 to January 2012. Dr. Leiden received his M.D., Ph.D. and B.A. degrees from the University of Chicago. 

Dr. Altshuler has been our Executive Vice President, Global Research and Chief Scientific Officer since January 2015 and was a member of our Board of Directors from May 2012 through December 2014. Dr. Altshuler was one of four founding members of the Broad Institute, a research collaboration of Harvard, MIT, The Whitehead Institute and the Harvard Hospitals. He served as the Director of the Institute&#8217;s Program in Medical and Population Genetics from 2003 through December 2014 and as the Institute&#8217;s Deputy Director and Chief Academic Officer from 2009 through December 2014. Dr. Altshuler joined the faculty at Harvard Medical School and the Massachusetts General Hospital in 2000 and held the academic rank of Professor of Genetics and Medicine from 2008 through December 2014. He served as Adjunct Professor of Biology at MIT from 2012 through December 2014. Dr. Altshuler earned a B.S. from MIT, a Ph.D. from Harvard University and an M.D. from Harvard Medical School. Dr. Altshuler completed his clinical training in Internal Medicine, and in Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, at the Massachusetts General Hospital. 

Mr. Arbuckle is our Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, a position he has held since September 2012. Prior to joining us, Mr. Arbuckle held multiple commercial leadership roles at Amgen, Inc., a 17,000 person biotechnology company, from July 2004 through August 2012. Mr. Arbuckle has worked in the biopharmaceuticals industry since 1986, including more than 15 years at GlaxoSmithKline plc, where he held sales and marketing roles of increasing responsibility for medicines aimed at treating respiratory, metabolic, musculoskeletal, cardiovascular and other diseases. He has served as a member of the Board of Directors of Cerulean Pharma, Inc. since June 2015. Mr. Arbuckle holds a BSc in pharmacology and physiology from the University of Leeds. 

Dr. Chodakewitz is our Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development and Medical Affairs and Chief Medical Officer. Dr. Chodakewitz joined Vertex as a Senior Vice President in January 2014 and became an Executive Vice President in October 2014. Prior to joining us, Dr. Chodakewitz spent more than 20 years at Merck &#38; Co., Inc., where he held a variety of roles including Vice President of Clinical Research &#8211; Infectious Diseases &#38; Vaccines, Vice President of Clinical Pharmacology/Early Stage Development, Senior Vice President of Late Stage Development, and Senior Vice President of Global Scientific Strategy (Infectious Diseases, Respiratory/Immunology). Prior to his tenure at Merck, he served as the Director of the HIV Outpatient Clinic at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in West Haven, Connecticut and held various academic positions at Yale University and New York University Schools of Medicine. Dr. Chodakewitz serves as a member of the Board of Directors of Tetraphase Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a pharmaceutical company. Dr. Chodakewitz holds B.S. in Biochemistry from Yale University, and an M.D. from the Yale University School of Medicine. 

Mr. Parini is our Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, a position he has held since January 2016. From 2004 until he joined Vertex, Mr. Parini served in various roles of increasing responsibility at Pfizer Inc., most recently as Senior Vice President and Associate General Counsel. Prior to Pfizer, Mr. Parini was an attorney at Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer &#38; Feld, L.L.P. Mr. Parini holds a B.A. from Georgetown University and a J.D. from the Georgetown University Law Center. 

Mr. Sachdev is our Executive Vice President, Policy, Access and Value, a role he assumed in October 2014. In this role, Mr. Sachdev manages our global market access, health economics and outcomes research efforts for our drugs and drug candidates. In 2007, he joined us as a Senior Vice President, and has led our government affairs and public policy activities, as well as our patient advocacy programs. From 2010 through 2013 he established our first international commercial operations in Canada. Prior to joining us, Mr. Sachdev served as Executive Vice President, Health of the Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO) and was the Deputy Commissioner for Policy at the FDA where he also served in several other senior positions within the FDA. Prior to the FDA, Mr. Sachdev served as Majority Counsel to the Committee on Energy and Commerce in the United States House of Representatives and practiced law at the Chemical Manufacturers Association, and subsequently at the law firm of Ropes &#38; Gray LLP. Mr. Sachdev holds a B.S from Carnegie Mellon University, and a J.D. from Emory University School of Law. 

Mr. Smith is our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, a position he has held since February 2006. From November 2003 to February 2006, he was our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and from October 2001 to November 2003, he served as our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining us, Mr. Smith served as a partner in the Life Science and Technology Practice Group of Ernst &#38; Young LLP, an accounting firm, from 1999 to 2001. Mr. Smith initially joined Ernst &#38; Young&#8217;s U.K. firm in 1987, and then joined its Boston office in 1995. Mr. Smith currently is a member of the Boards of Directors of Acorda Therapeutics, Inc., a drug development company, and Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a drug development company. Mr. Smith holds a B.A. in accounting and finance from Manchester Metropolitan University, U.K., is a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and is a Chartered Accountant of England and Wales. 

Mr. Silva is our Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, a position he has held since April 2011. Mr. Silva joined us in August 2007 as Senior Director, Accounting Operations and was our Vice President and Corporate Controller from September 2008 through April 2011. Prior to joining us, he was the Vice President, Internal Reporting at Iron Mountain Incorporated from July 2006 until August 2007 and a consultant to Iron Mountain&#8217;s financing department from April 2005 until July 2006. He was the Finance Director of the Bioscience Technologies Division of Thermo Electron Corporation from 2002 to April 2005. Mr. Silva holds a B.S. in accounting from Assumption College. 

Dr. Bhatia has been a member of our Board of Directors since June 2015. Dr. Bhatia is a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where she currently serves as the John J. and Dorothy Wilson Professor of Health Sciences &#38; Technology/Electrical Engineering &#38; Computer Science. Prior to joining the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 2005, 

Dr. Bhatia was a professor of bioengineering and medicine at the University of California at San Diego from 1998 through 2005. Dr. Bhatia also is an investigator for the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, a member of the Department of Medicine at Brigham and Women&#8217;s Hospital, a member of the Broad Institute and a member of the Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research. Dr. Bhatia holds an Sc.B. in biomedical engineering from Brown University, an S.M. and Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an M.D. from Harvard Medical School. 

Dr. Boger is the founder of Vertex and has been a director since our inception in 1989. He was our Chief Executive Officer from 1992 through May 2009. He was our Chairman of our board of directors from 1997 until May 2006 and our President from our inception until December 2000, and from 2005 through February 2009. He was our Chief Scientific Officer from 1989 until May 1992. Prior to founding Vertex in 1989, Dr. Boger held the position of Senior Director of Basic Chemistry at Merck Sharp &#38; Dohme Research Laboratories in Rahway, New Jersey, where he headed both the Department of Medicinal Chemistry of Immunology &#38; Inflammation and the Department of Biophysical Chemistry. Dr. Boger holds a B.A. in chemistry and philosophy from Wesleyan University and M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in chemistry from Harvard University. 

Mr. Kearney has been a member of our Board of Directors since May 2011. Mr. Kearney served as the Chief Operating Officer of Hospira, Inc., a specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company, from April 2006 to January 2011. From April 2004 to April 2006, he served as Hospira&#8217;s Senior Vice President, Finance, and Chief Financial Officer, and he served as Acting Chief Financial Officer through August 2006. Mr. Kearney served as Vice President and Treasurer of Abbott Laboratories from 2001 to April 2004. From 1996 to 2001, Mr. Kearney was Divisional Vice President and Controller for Abbott&#8217;s International Division. Mr. Kearney serves as a member of the Board of Directors at Acceleron Pharma Inc., a biopharmaceutical company, and Innoviva, Inc. (formerly known as Theravance, Inc.), a royalty management company. He received his B.S. in biology from the University of Illinois and his M.B.A. from the University of Denver. 

Mr. Lee has been a member of our Board of Directors since September 2012. Mr. Lee has served as an Executive in Residence (XIR) and Partner of General Catalyst Partners, a venture capital firm, since April of 2013. Mr. Lee also serves as the Chief Executive Officer of two software companies, Clarabridge, Inc. and Allego Inc. Mr. Lee was the Vice President of IBM&#8217;s Enterprise Marketing Management Group from November 2010 through January 2013. Mr. Lee co-founded Unica Corporation, a provider of software and services used to automate marketing processes, in 1992, and was Unica&#8217;s President and/or Chief Executive Officer from 1992 through November 2010, when Unica was acquired by IBM. From 1989 to 1992, Mr. Lee was a senior consultant at Digital Equipment Corporation, a supplier of general computing technology and consulting services. Mr. Lee holds a B.S. and an M.S. in electrical engineering and computer science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an M.B.A. from Babson College. 

Ms. McGlynn has been a member of our Board of Directors since May 2011. Ms. McGlynn served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative, a global not-for-profit organization whose mission is to ensure the development of safe, effective and accessible HIV vaccines for use throughout the world, from July 2011 until September 2015. Ms. McGlynn served as President, Vaccines and Infectious Diseases of Merck &#38; Co., Inc. from 2005 until 2009. Ms. McGlynn joined Merck in 1983 and served in a variety of marketing, sales and managed care roles. Ms. McGlynn serves as a member of the Board of Directors for Air Products and Chemicals, Inc., a company specializing in gases and chemicals for industrial uses, and Amicus Therapeutics, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company. She is also a member of the National Industrial Advisory Committee at the University at Buffalo School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences. Ms. McGlynn holds a B.S. in Pharmacy and an M.B.A. in Marketing from the State University of New York at Buffalo. 

Mr. Sachs has been a member of our Board of Directors since 1998. Mr. Sachs is a General Partner at Charles River Ventures, a venture capital firm he joined in 1999. From 1998 to 1999, he served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of Ascend Communications, Inc. From 1997 until 1998, Mr. Sachs served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Stratus Computer, Inc. From 1995 to 1997, he served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Internet Telecom Business Group at Bay Networks, Inc. From 1993 to 1995, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Xylogics, Inc. Mr. Sachs holds a B.S.E.E. in electrical engineering from Bucknell University, an M.E.E. in electrical engineering from Cornell University, and an M.B.A. from Northeastern University. 

Ms. Ullian has been a member of our Board of Directors since 1997. Ms. Ullian served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Medical Center, a private, not-for-profit, 626-bed, academic medical center with a community-based focus, from 1996 through January 2010. From 1994 to 1996, she served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston University Medical Center Hospital. From 1987 to 1994, Ms. Ullian served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Faulkner Hospital. She also serves as a director of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and Hologic, Inc. Ms. Ullian holds a B.A. in political science from Tufts University and an M.P.H. from the University of Michigan. 

Mr. Young is a Venture Partner at Clarus Ventures, a life sciences venture capital firm, which he joined in 2010. Prior to Clarus Ventures, Mr. Young served from 1999 until June 2009 as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Monogram Biosciences, Inc., a biotechnology company acquired by Laboratory Corporation of America in June 2009. From 1980 to 1999, Mr. Young was employed at Genentech, Inc. in positions of increasing responsibility, including as Chief Operating Officer from 1997 to 1999, where he was responsible for all product development, manufacturing and commercial functions. Prior to joining Genentech, Mr. Young was with Eli Lilly &#38; Co. for 14 years. Mr. Young currently serves at the Chairman of the Board of Directors of NanoString Technologies, Inc., and as a member of the Board of Directors of Theravance BioPharma Inc. Mr. Young retired from BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc.&#8217;s Board of Directors in November 2015 and from Biogen Idec&#8217;s Board of Directors in June 2014. Mr. Young holds a B.S. in Chemical Engineering from Purdue University, an M.B.A. from Indiana University and an Honorary Doctorate in Engineering from Purdue University. Mr. Young was elected to the National Academy of Engineering in 1993 for his contributions to biotechnology. 

