 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

Background. 

Wellness Center USA, Inc. (the &#147;Company&#148;) was incorporated in the State of Nevada on June 30, 2010. Following that date, we were engaged in the development of &#147;aminofactory.com&#148;, a web-based online store designed to market customized vitamins and other nutritional supplements to the sports industry and health-minded public, and expanded into additional businesses within the healthcare and medical sectors through four acquisitions: CNS-Wellness LLC (&#147;CNS&#148;), Psoria-Shield Inc. (&#147;PSI&#148;), National Pain Centers. Inc. (&#147;NPC&#148;) and certain assets of SMI Holdings, Inc., d/b/a Stealth Mark, Inc. 

CNS 

CNS was organized in the State of Florida on May 26, 2009 to provide alternative, scientific approaches to mental health and awareness. It was acquired by the Company through a share exchange on August 2, 2012 and was operated as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. On September 30, 2014, the Company disposed of all of its issued and outstanding membership interests in CNS. The disposition was part of a settlement of proceedings filed by the Company against management and an entity affiliated with management. The disposition of interests was in consideration of management&#146;s return of 7,300,000 shares of common stock in the Company issued to management in connection with the Company&#146;s acquisition of CNS in 2012, which shares were returned to the Company&#146;s treasury and then cancelled as part of the settlement. Each party to the proceedings released each of the others, and any and all claims that might be asserted against any of them, and the proceedings were dismissed with prejudice by the court. 

PSI 

PSI was incorporated under the laws of the state of Florida on June 17, 2009. On August 24, 2012, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of stock in PSI. PSI is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and operated by Psoria Development Company LLC, an Illinois limited liability company (&#147;PDC&#148;), a joint venture between WCUI/PSI and The Medical Alliance, Inc., a Florida corporation (&#147;TMA&#148;). PDC is managed by our CEO, Andrew J. Kandalepas and TMA&#146;s principals John Yorke and Chris Waugh, with three (3) full-time employees and several independent contractors. We believe that PSI&#146;s operations and services provide an attractive complement to the Company&#146;s operations and products and represent a viable alternative to current approaches to Ultra Violet (UV) phototherapy treatment of skin diseases. 

PSI is a medical device design and manufacturing company. It designs, develops and markets a targeted ultraviolet (&#147;UV&#148;) phototherapy device called the Psoria-Light. The Psoria-Light is designated for use in targeted PUVA photochemistry and UVB phototherapy and is designed to treat certain skin conditions including psoriasis, vitiligo, atopic dermatitis (eczema), seborrheic dermatitis, and leukoderma. PSI intends to enter into agreements with third parties, in the United States and internationally, for the manufacture of component parts that make up the Psoria-Light and to license its proprietary technology to third parties domestically and in selected foreign markets. 

The Psoria-Light consists of three components: a base console, a color display with touchscreen control, and a hand-held delivery device with a conduit (or tether) between the handheld device and the base console. PSI requires clearance by the United States Food and Drug Administration (&#147;FDA&#148;) to market and sell the device in the United States as well as permission from TUV SUD America Inc., PSI&#146;s Notified Body, to affix the CE mark to the Psoria-Light in order to market and sell the device in countries of the European Union. To obtain FDA clearance and permission to affix the CE mark, PSI was required to conduct EMC and electrical safety testing, which it completed in the second quarter of 2011. PSI received FDA clearance on February 11, 2011 (no. K103540) and was granted permission to affix the CE mark on November 10, 2011. In its 510(k) application with the FDA (application number K103540), PSI asserted that the Psoria-Light was &#147;substantially equivalent&#148; in intended use and technology to two predicate devices, the X -Trac Excimer Laser, which has wide acceptance in the medical billing literature and has a large installed base in the U.S., and the Dualight, another competing targeted UV phototherapy device. 

Psoriasis, eczema, and vitiligo, are common skin conditions that can be challenging to treat, and often cause the patient significant psychosocial stress. Patients undergo a variety of treatments to address these skin conditions, including routine consumption of systemic and biologic drug therapies which are highly toxic, reduce systemic immune system function, and come with a host of chemotherapy-like side effects. Ultraviolet (UV) phototherapy is a clinically validated treatment modality for these disorders. 

Traditionally, &#147;non-targeted&#148; therapy was administered by lamps that emitted either UVA or UVB light to both diseased and healthy skin. While sunblocks or other UV barriers may be used to protect healthy skin, the UV administered in this manner must be low dosage to avoid excessive exposure of healthy tissue. Today, &#147;targeted&#148; UV phototherapy devices administer much higher dosages of light only to affected tissue, resulting in &#147;clearance&#148; in the case of psoriasis and eczema, and &#147;repigmentation&#148; in the case of vitiligo, at much faster rates than non-targeted (low dosage) UV treatments. 

Targeted UV treatments are typically administered to smaller total body surface areas, and are therefore used to treat the most intense parts of a patient&#146;s disease. Non-targeted UV treatment is typically used as a follow-up and for maintenance, capable of treating large surfaces of the body. Excimer laser devices (UVB at 308nm) are expensive and consume dangerous chemicals (Xenon and Chlorine). Mercury lamp devices (UVB and/or UVA) require expensive lamp replacements regularly and require special disposal (due to mercury content). Additionally, mercury lamp devices typically deliver wavelengths of light below 300nm. While within the UVB spectrum, it has been shown that wavelengths below 300nm produce significantly more &#147;sunburn&#148; type side effects than do wavelengths between 300 and 320nm without improvement in therapeutic benefit. 

The Psoria-Light is a targeted UV phototherapy device which produces UVB light between 300 and 320 nm as well as UVA light between 350 and 395nm, does not consume dangerous chemicals or require special environmental disposal and is cost effective for clinicians, which will increase patient access to this type of treatment. It has several unique and advanced features that we believe will distinguish it from the non-targeted and targeted UV phototherapy devices that are currently being used by dermatologists and other healthcare providers. These features include the following: the utilization of deep narrow-band UVB (&#147;NB-UVB&#148;) LEDs as light sources; the ability to produce both UVA or NB-UVB therapeutic wavelengths; an integrated high resolution digital camera and patient record integration capabilities; the ability to export to an external USB memory device a PDF file of patient treatment information including a patent pending graph that includes digital images plotted against user tracked metrics which can be submitted to improve medical reimbursements; an accessory port and ability to update software; ease of placement and portability; advanced treatment site detection safety sensor; international language support; a warranty which includes the UV lamp(s); and a non-changeable treatment log (that does not include HIPPA information).

PSI has established an ISO 13485 compliant quality system for the Psoria-Light, which was first audited in the third quarter of 2011. This system is intended to ensure PSI devices will be manufactured in a controlled and reliable environment and that its resources follow similar practices and is required for sales in countries requiring a CE mark. PSI has also received Certified Space Technology designation from the Space Foundation, based on PSI&#146;s incorporation of established NASA-funded LED technology. 

PSI has registered a variety of domain names and established an initial website to include in depth information regarding psoriasis, eczema, vitiligo, and the Psoria-Light device. It has developed informational videos, flyers, booklets and tradeshow materials, as well as a database of U.S. dermatologists that can be used to assist sales personnel in contacting dermatologists that might be interested in the Psoria-Light device.

PSI began Psoria-Light Beta deployment in January 2012. It is currently operating at a loss, and there is no assurance that its business development plans and strategies will ever be successful. PSI&#146;s success depends upon the acceptance by healthcare providers and clients of Psoria-Light treatment as a preferred method of treatment for psoriasis and other UV-treatable skin conditions. Psoria-Light treatment appears to have been beneficial to clients, without demonstrable harmful side effects or safety issues, as evidenced by more than 10,000 treatments completed on more than 1,000 clients, domestically and Mexico, since 2012. In order for the Company to continue PSI operations it will need additional capital and it will have to successfully coordinate integration of PSI operations without materially and adversely affecting continuation and development of other Company operations.

On October 24, 2014, the Company entered into an Agency Agreement with TMA, to assist in the further development, marketing, licensing and/or sale of PSI technology and products. On January 12, 2015, the Company formed PDC with TMA to jointly pursue these ends. TMA, Mr. Yorke and Mr. Waugh bring over 75 years of combined experience in delivering integrated consulting services in the medical device, supply and information technologies arenas. 

NPC 

NPC was incorporated under the laws of the state of Nevada on January 24, 2014. It is an Illinois-based management services provider. It was acquired by the Company on February 28, 2014 and is operated as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company with four (4) full-time employees. NPC manages non-medical services in three clinics and two surgical centers in the Chicago-land area that provide diagnostic, surgical, treatment, research, advocacy, education, and setting standards and protocols within the interventional and multi-modal pain management, pursuant to a management service agreement dated as of February 28, 2014 by and between NPC and National Pain Centers, LLC (&#34;NPC LLC&#34;), which is owned by Dr. Jay Joshi, the president and CEO of NPC. Per the agreement, NPC LLC engages NPC to provide management services for a term period of five (5) years commencing on the effective date. During the term of this agreement, NPCLLC shall pay NPC the equivalent of 50% of all monies collected and as billed monthly to NPCLLC on net-30 term.

NPC is managed by its founder and CEO Dr. Jay Joshi, MD, DABA, DABAPM, FABAPM. Dr. Joshi also serves as the Company&#146;s Chief Medical Officer (&#147;CMO&#148;) and as a member of its Board of Directors. Dr. Joshi is a nationally recognized double board certified Anesthesiologist and fellowship trained Interventional Spine and Pain Management physician whose capabilities combine clinical medicine, research, creativity, marketing, inventions, and business development. He is considered a National Key Opinion Leader in pain management. He has presented to a variety of audiences over 500 times, and has worked internationally at the World Health Organization (WHO). 

SCI 

SCI was incorporated under the laws of the state of Illinois on March 18, 2014. It is a Minnesota-based provider of Stealth Mark encryption and authentication solutions offering advanced product security technologies within the security and supply chain management vertical sectors. SCI acquired certain Stealth Mark assets on April 4, 2014 and operates as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company with our full-time CEO, Ricky Howard, and four (4) consultants. SCI provides customers premiere authentication technology for the protection of brands and products from illicit counterfeiting and diversion activities. SCI enables the Company to offer a complete, simple to use, easy to implement, and cost effective turnkey system that is extremely difficult to compromise.

SCI is managed by its CEO, Ricky Howard. Mr. Howard has over thirty years of experience in operations management and executive positions in a variety of industries ranging from entrepreneurial startups to Fortune 500 companies. He joined Stealth Mark as V.P. of Operations at the early stage of development in 2006 and played an integral role in bringing the company&#146;s capabilities to its present status including design and creation of its manufacturing capabilities, implementation of its ERP inventory controls system, software and hardware development, marketing and sales materials processes and day-to-day operational procedures and processes. 

Aminofactory.com 

Since the acquisitions and disposition described above, we have focused primarily upon development of acquired and disposed products, services and operations. During the period covered by this report, we have continued limited development of our aminofactory.com web-based online store and expansion of a wider range of nutritional supplements, including customized formulas uniquely tailored to suit an individual&#146;s needs. However, this line of business has not presented a material source of revenue and management is currently evaluating whether to continue or to terminate &#147;aminofactory.com&#148; activities. 

Supplements offered through our website are produced by unaffiliated third party manufacturers and/or product fulfillment suppliers, specializing in nutritional supplement production. Supplements produced for us can be also provided to our competitors by our suppliers and/or manufacturers. However, we are able to specifically select our product portfolio and market it through our website with our custom packaging and pricing, under a supplier or manufacturer&#146;s, or under our own label, in the event that management decides to continue this line of business. 

