 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

Workday is a leading provider of enterprise cloud applications for finance and human resources. Founded in 2005, Workday delivers financial management, human capital management and analytics applications designed for the world&#8217;s largest companies, educational institutions, and government agencies. Organizations headquartered around the globe, ranging from medium-sized businesses to the world's largest enterprises, have selected Workday. We achieved this leadership position through our innovative and adaptable technology, focus on the consumer Internet experience and cloud delivery model. 

Organizations today operate in environments that are highly complex and changing at an increasing rate. Managers and employees must quickly synthesize vast amounts of information and react to rapid changes in global business and regulatory environments. To be successful, they need highly functional and flexible software that enables informed decision-making about the enterprise-wide allocation of their resources. Additionally, managers and employees expect to interact with enterprise systems in an open, intuitive and collaborative way, including real-time access through a wide range of mobile and computing devices. We believe that legacy, on-premise systems make those interactions difficult, as their user interfaces are not intuitive and were not originally designed for mobility. 

Workday is leading the way in helping organizations better manage their financial and human capital resources. As part of our applications, we provide embedded analytics that capture the content and context of everyday business events, facilitating fast and informed decision-making from wherever users are working. In addition, we provide an intuitive user experience similar to those of leading consumer Internet sites, reducing the time for training on our applications. 

Since Workday is delivered in the cloud, organizations can embrace change in their operating environments with support for new regulatory requirements, increased performance and enhancement of the user experience that we deliver through our rapid innovation cycle of frequent functionality-rich feature releases. We deliver innovation regularly, with major feature releases delivered two times per year as part of our customers' subscription agreement. When the new feature releases are delivered, the prior version is fully replaced. As a result, all Workday customers are on the same version at all times. Feature releases are included in our customers&#8217; Workday subscription and are not subject to an additional fee. Workday customers benefit from the most current technologies without the burden of large upgrade costs typically associated with traditional on-premise software. 

We deliver our cloud applications using an innovative technology foundation that leverages the most recent advances in cloud computing and data management and allows us to deliver applications that are highly functional, flexible and fast. Our use of a multi-tenant architecture in which customers are on the same version of our software enables innovations to be deployed quickly. In addition, we use objects to represent real-world entities such as employees, benefits, budgets, charts of accounts and organizations, combining business logic and data in one place and creating actionable analytics that are part of our core transactional systems of record. Our use of in memory data management allows rapid and efficient delivery of embedded business intelligence. We also provide open, standards-based web-services application programming interfaces and pre-built packaged integrations and connectors. This shift in approach substantially reduces the need for our customers to buy and support a broad range of IT infrastructure, significantly reducing costs and complexity. 

Our Applications 

Workday Financial Management 

Workday Financial Management is a comprehensive, unified application built on a single, global core with a full range of financial capabilities, relevant analytics and metrics, and fully auditable process management built to help manage financial processes for global organizations. 

Workday Financial Management provides the core finance functions of general ledger, global accounting, accounts payable, accounts receivable, cash management, asset management, employee expense management, revenue management, projects, procurement, inventory, and grants management. It also supports built-in financial, operational, and management reporting and analysis in real time without the use of complex and expensive bolt-on business intelligence systems. 

Workday Human Capital Management (HCM) 

Designed for the largest organizations in the world, Workday Human Capital Management (HCM) allows an organization to staff, pay, organize, and develop its global workforce. This unified application includes global human resources management (workforce lifecycle management, organization management, compensation, absence, and employee benefits administration) and global talent management (goal management, performance management, succession planning, and career and development planning). 

Other Applications 

Workday offers a variety of other applications that complement and are unified with Workday Financial Management and Workday HCM. Workday Recruiting is an end-to-end application that supports the needs of candidates, hiring managers, the interview team, and recruiters. Workday Payroll is designed to address the full spectrum of enterprise payroll needs and provides control, accuracy and flexibility, with native payroll offerings in the U.S., Canada and United Kingdom as well as a global payroll cloud partner program to support additional customer needs. Workday Time Tracking, our time and attendance application, is designed to automate workforce management processes and thereby reduce costs and compliance risks. Workday Professional Services Automation (PSA) supports the complete billable projects lifecycle, including project and resource management, time and expense tracking, project billing, revenue recognition, financial reporting, and analytics within a single, unified solution. Workday Insight Applications leverages advanced data science and machine learning methodologies to help customers make smarter financial and workforce decisions, including retention risk analysis through Workday Talent Insights. Workday Student Recruiting and Workday Student Admissions are available as part of Workday Student, an end-to-end student and faculty lifecycle information system to help colleges and universities advance their institutions and enable student success. 

Customers 

We currently have more than 1,200 customers, with a focus on large, global organizations. We define a customer as a separate and distinct buying entity, such as a company, an educational or government institution, or a distinct business unit of a large organization, which has entered into a master subscription agreement with us to access our cloud applications, including customers that are in the process of deploying our applications. While a single customer may have multiple organizations, operating segments or locations, we only include the customer once for this metric. We exclude from our customer count small- to medium-sized business customers who have contracted for our subscription services through a former reseller partner. 

Our current customer base spans numerous industry categories, including technology, financial services, business and professional services, healthcare and life sciences, manufacturing, retail and hospitality, education, government and non-profit. No individual customer represented more than 10% of our revenues in the year ended January 31, 2016 . 

We have built a company culture centered around our customers&#8217; success and satisfaction. We have developed several programs designed to provide customers with service options to enhance their experience with our applications. These services include 24x7 support; a professional services ecosystem that consists of our Workday consulting teams and system integrators that are trained on our applications; a Customer Success Management group to assist customers in production; and an online community to facilitate collaboration among customers and with the Workday application development teams. 

Employees 

As of January 31, 2016 , we had approximately 5,200 &#32;employees. We also engage contractors and consultants. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be very good. 

Sales and Marketing 

We sell the Workday Service through our direct sales organization, that is comprised of field sales and field sales support personnel. Workday&#8217;s field sales team is aligned by geography and the number of employees in a prospect account. 

We generate customer leads, accelerate sales opportunities and build brand awareness through our marketing programs and through our strategic relationships. Our marketing programs target senior business leaders, including finance, HR and IT executives. 

As a core part of our strategy, we have developed an ecosystem of partners to both broaden and complement our application offerings and to provide services that lie outside of Workday&#8217;s areas of focus. These relationships include software and technology partners, consulting and implementation services providers, and business process outsourcing (BPO) partners, and enable Workday to address the finance and HR-related challenges our customers face while maintaining focus on executing against our strategy. 

Product Development 

Our ability to compete depends in large part on our continuous commitment to product development and our ability to rapidly introduce new applications, technologies, features and functionality. Our product development organization is responsible for the design, development, testing and certification of our applications. We focus our efforts on developing new applications and core technologies and further enhancing the usability, functionality, reliability, performance, and flexibility of existing applications. 

Product development expenses were $470 million , $317 million &#32;and $182 million &#32;for the years ended January 31, 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. 

Competition 

The overall market for enterprise application software is rapidly evolving, highly competitive, and subject to changing technology, shifting customer needs and frequent introductions of new applications. We currently compete with large, well-established, enterprise application software vendors, such as SAP SE (SAP) and Oracle Corporation (Oracle). SAP and Oracle are established enterprise software companies that have greater name recognition, much longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, and other resources than we have and are able to provide a broader scope of business applications than our current suite of applications. We also face competition from other enterprise software vendors and from vendors of specific applications, some of which offer cloud-based solutions. These vendors include The Ultimate Software Group, Inc., Automated Data Processing, Inc. (ADP), and Infor Global Solutions, among others. We also face competition from cloud-based vendors including: providers of applications for HCM and payroll services, such as Ceridian, Inc. and providers of financial management applications such as NetSuite, Inc. We may also face competition from a variety of vendors of cloud-based and on-premise software applications that address only a portion of one of our applications. In addition, other cloud companies that provide services in different markets may develop solutions in our target markets, and some potential customers may elect to develop their own internal solutions. However, the domain expertise that is required for a successful solution in the areas of financial management, HCM and analytics may inhibit new entrants that are unable to invest the necessary capital to accurately reflect global requirements and regulations. We expect continued consolidation in our industry that could lead to significantly increased competition. 

We believe the principal competitive factors in our market include the following: 

&#8226; 

level of customer satisfaction; 

&#8226; 

ease of deployment and use of applications; 

&#8226; 

breadth and depth of application functionality; 

&#8226; 

total cost of ownership; 

&#8226; 

brand awareness and reputation; 

&#8226; 

modern and adaptive technology platform; 

&#8226; 

capability for configuration, integration, security, scalability and reliability of applications; 

&#8226; 

ability to innovate and respond to customer needs rapidly; 

&#8226; 

domain expertise on financial, HR and payroll regulations; 

&#8226; 

size of customer base and level of user adoption; 

&#8226; 

customer confidence in financial stability and future viability; and 

&#8226; 

ability to integrate with legacy enterprise infrastructures and third-party applications. 

We believe that we compete favorably on the basis of these factors. Our ability to remain competitive will largely depend on our ongoing performance in the areas of application development and customer support. 

Intellectual Property 

We rely on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and trademarks, as well as contractual protections, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. We require our employees, contractors, consultants and other third parties to enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements and control access to software, documentation and other proprietary information. Although we rely on intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, patents, copyrights and trademarks, as well as contractual protections to establish and protect our proprietary rights, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, creation of new modules, features and functionality, and frequent enhancements to our applications are more essential to establishing and maintaining our technology leadership position. Our patents begin to expire in 2017. 

Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technology and our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use our technology to develop applications with the same functionality as our application. Policing unauthorized use of our technology and intellectual property rights is difficult. 

We expect that software and other applications in our industry may be subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors grows and the functionality of applications in different industry segments overlaps. Any of these third parties might make a claim of infringement against us at any time. 

Corporate Information 

We were incorporated in March 2005 in Nevada, and in June 2012 we reincorporated in Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at 6230 Stoneridge Mall Road, Pleasanton, California 94588, and our telephone number is (877) WORKDAY. Our website address is www.workday.com. The information on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not part of this report. Workday is our registered trademark in the United States, the European Community, Canada, Norway, Switzerland, New Zealand, Hong Kong and Australia and the Workday logo, our Built for the Future tagline, and all of our product names are our trademarks. Other trademarks, service marks, or trade names appearing in this report are the property of their respective owners. 

Available Information 

We file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy and information statements and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a), 14 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The public may obtain these filings at the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding Workday and other companies that file materials with the SEC electronically. Copies of Workday&#8217;s reports on Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q and Forms 8-K, may be obtained, free of charge, electronically through our internet website, http://www.workday.com/company/investor_relations/sec_filings.php. 

