 Item 1. &#32;Business 

General 

Western Digital is a leading developer, manufacturer and provider of data storage devices and solutions that address the evolving needs of the information technology (&#8220;IT&#8221;) industry and the infrastructure that enables the proliferation of data in virtually every industry. Our broad portfolio of offerings addresses three categories: Datacenter Devices and Solutions (capacity and performance enterprise hard disk drives (&#8220;HDDs&#8221;), enterprise solid state drives (&#8220;SSDs&#8221;), datacenter software and system solutions); Client Devices (mobile, desktop, gaming and digital video hard drives, client SSDs, embedded products and wafers); and Client Solutions (removable products, hard drive content solutions and flash content solutions). We also generate license and royalty revenue related to our intellectual property which is included in each of the three categories. 

We have a rich heritage of innovation, operational execution, deep intellectual property assets and broad research and development (&#8220;R&#38;D&#8221;) capabilities. The landscape of storage markets we serve is changing rapidly in terms of how data is being used, stored and monetized, while data growth is continuing unabated. We estimate that on a worldwide basis, the rate at which data is generated will likely expand at approximately 40% &#32;per annum for the next several years. We are transforming ourselves to address this growth by providing the broadest range of storage technologies, product portfolio and global reach in the industry. Founded in 1970 and headquartered in Irvine, California, Western Digital has approximately 11,300 &#32;engineers, and one of the technology industry&#8217;s most valuable patent portfolios with more than 13,500 &#32;patents awarded worldwide. Since 2009, we have been a Standard &#38; Poor&#8217;s, or S&#38;P, 500 company. 

Built on decades of expertise in developing leading technology and components, we are enabling enterprises to collect virtually limitless sets of data, and helping cloud providers build more powerful, cost effective and efficient datacenters. We have relationships with the full range of original equipment manufacturers (&#8220;OEM&#8221;) and datacenter customers currently addressing storage opportunities, including storage subsystem suppliers, major server OEMs, Internet and social media infrastructure players, and personal computer (&#8220;PC&#8221;) and Mac&#8482; OEMs. We have also built strong consumer brands by providing people with effective tools to manage fast-accumulating libraries of personal content. We market our products primarily under the HGST, SanDisk and WD brands, and our products are sold through distribution, retail and direct channels worldwide. 

We believe we are well positioned to capitalize on the ongoing expansion in digital content generation and management. These trends are linked directly to commercial enterprises&#8217; and consumers&#8217; increasingly ubiquitous experience with data and the increasing value of that data. The confluence of data growth and the ability to expand the extraction of value from data are driving the need for the long-term retention of as much data as possible for legal and regulatory purposes and for potential future refinements in a wide range of fields, including advertising, aerospace, e-commerce, energy, medical, mining and security surveillance. We believe the ways in which people and organizations are creating and using data are changing and that the amount of data considered useful to store is expanding. Increasingly, more and more digital content is being stored and managed on HDDs and SSDs in a cloud environment, and we believe we are well positioned to continue to play a role in this transition. With a focus on innovation and value creation, our goal is to grow through continued strong execution and with targeted investments in datacenter infrastructure, mobility and the cloud. 

Two pivotal events in fiscal 2016 contributed to the ongoing strategic transformation of our company in this context: 

1. 

In October 2015, the Ministry of Commerce of the People&#8217;s Republic of China (&#8220;MOFCOM&#8221;) lifted substantially all conditions associated with its 2012 hold separate ruling in connection with Western Digital&#8217;s 2012 acquisition of the HGST subsidiary of Hitachi, Ltd. (&#8220;Hitachi&#8221;). Prior to the October ruling by MOFCOM, we were required to operate our WD and HGST businesses as separate subsidiaries. The October decision allowed us to integrate all HGST and WD operations and resources except for sales forces and product brands, creating the opportunity to achieve significant efficiencies and synergies. 

2. 

In May 2016, we completed the acquisition (the &#8220;Merger&#8221;) of SanDisk Corporation (&#8220;SanDisk&#8221;), a global leader in NAND-flash storage solutions with a strong history of innovative flash-based product offerings. This acquisition aligned with our long-term strategy to be a broad based, innovative and media-agnostic leader in the storage industry, and it more than doubled our addressable market. SanDisk brings a 27-year history of innovation and expertise in non-volatile memory, systems solutions and manufacturing. The combination enables us to vertically integrate into non-volatile memory, providing long-term access to solid state technology at lower cost. It will also enable us to engage in R&#38;D that focuses on blending our technologies and to create enhanced storage solutions. 

Industry 

We operate in the data storage and data management industry. Our devices and solutions are made using rotating magnetic or non-volatile memory storage technologies (&#8220;NAND&#8221;) that together provide a broad range of reliability, performance, storage capacity and data retention capabilities to our customers. With increasing ability to capture and create meaning from data, customers view data analytics insight as one of their most treasured assets. In a connected global marketplace, there is a proliferation in the methods by and the rates at which content is generated, consumed and stored by end users. When combined with fast global networks, these trends create tremendous need for cost effective, high-performance and/or high-capacity storage solutions in mobile, computing and consumer electronic devices, as well as in a wide range of storage systems, servers and datacenters. We are a market and customer driven company, focused on growth, innovation and value creation for our customers, employees and shareholders. We develop deep and collaborative relationships with our customers with a goal of enabling their continued success, an approach that has made us a trusted advisor and market maker in our served markets. As our portfolio of storage solutions expands further, we believe our customer engagement approach is one of the key factors that will help us continue to achieve strong financial performance over the long term. We believe that our product platform is broad-based and powerful, and our unique competitive advantages with growth drivers will continue to provide us the opportunity to expand our value-creation model within an evolving, changing and growing storage ecosystem. 

Storage solutions that hold large amounts of data are a key enabler of the trends seen in the evolution of a data driven economy, underpinned by the proliferation of digital content creation, consumption and monetization. We believe the growth in the number of computing users and connected mobile devices in the world continues unabated, creating varied usage patterns and the need for greater volumes of digital content to be stored. Cloud computing applications are especially noteworthy in their ability to generate more data through creation of multiple copies of content such as photos, videos and in other formats to ensure smooth user experience in a secure manner. 

There are several key shifts underway in the data storage industry, including a change in the methods of storage in client devices (both desktop and notebook PCs), the increased use of SSDs in client devices, and the shift of data storage from client, or local, devices to the cloud. As a broad-based provider of data storage technologies, devices and solutions in both the client and datacenter markets, we are strategically positioned to manage through these transitions, address these changes and meet the needs of our customers. 

Competition 

Our industry is highly competitive. We compete with manufacturers of HDDs and SSDs for client devices and solutions and datacenter devices and solutions. The HDD market consists of five principal brands: HGST, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd (&#8220;Samsung&#8221;), Seagate Technology LLC (&#8220;Seagate&#8221;), Toshiba Corporation (&#8220;Toshiba&#8221;) and WD. In SSDs and storage solutions, we compete with a wide range of manufacturers, from numerous small startup companies to large multinational corporations, including captive NAND suppliers SK Hynix, Inc., Intel Corporation, Micron Technology, Inc., Samsung and Toshiba. 

&#160; The storage industry is increasingly utilizing tiered architectures with both HDDs and SSDs to address an expanding set of uses and applications. We monitor the advantages, disadvantages and advances of the full array of storage technologies on an ongoing basis to ensure we are appropriately resourced to meet our customers&#8217; &#32; storage needs. 

Business Strategy 

Our overall strategy is to leverage our innovation and execution capabilities to be an industry-leading and broad-based developer, manufacturer and provider of storage devices and solutions that support the evolving IT industry infrastructure that enables the unabated proliferation of data. We strive to successfully execute our strategy through the following foundational elements: 

&#8226; 

Focus on strategy and execution as we integrate: &#32;Ensure that we focus on both strategy and execution as we integrate our HGST, SanDisk and WD subsidiaries to deliver the best outcome for our customers, partners and employees; 

&#8226; 

Optimize our core HDD business: &#32;as an established leader in the HDD industry, we are focused on delivering the best value for our customers in datacenter and client markets through a relentless focus on operational excellence and continued innovation; 

&#8226; 

Lead in SSDs and solutions: &#32;strategically align our investments to focus on established profitable and growing markets, as well as on emerging markets such as &#8220;Internet of Things&#8221;, to enable our future growth; 

&#8226; 

Grow in higher value markets with a blend of HDD and SSD technologies: &#32;leverage our capabilities in firmware, software and systems to deliver compelling storage solutions to our customers that offer the best combinations of performance, cost, power consumption, form factor, quality and reliability; and 

&#8226; 

Align our retail devices and solutions portfolio: &#32;compete with the industry&#8217;s broadest portfolio of storage offerings for consumers in all the channels we serve while creating new use cases for our solutions in emerging markets. 

We believe our strategy provides the following benefits, which distinguish us in the dynamic and competitive storage industry: 

&#8226; 

enables scaling for efficiency and flexibility, allowing us to leverage our R&#38;D and capital expenditures to deliver storage solutions to multiple markets; 

&#8226; 

results in continued diversification of our storage solutions portfolio and entry into additional growing adjacent markets; and 

&#8226; 

allows us to achieve strong financial performance, including healthy returns on invested capital and cash generation, thereby enabling efficient allocation of capital to shareholders and strategic long-term investments in innovative technologies. 

Data Storage Solutions 

We offer a broad line of data storage solutions to meet the evolving storage needs of end markets which include the following: 

Datacenter Devices and Solutions 

Datacenter devices and solutions consists of high-performance and high-capacity enterprise HDDs and enterprise SSDs, datacenter software and system solutions. Our high-performance HDDs are optimized for performance applications providing a range of capacity and performance levels primarily for use in enterprise servers, supporting high volume on-line transactions, data analysis and other enterprise applications. Our datacenter solutions also include a wide range of high-capacity HDDs and drive configurations which provide enterprise class reliability at the lowest cost per gigabyte (&#8220;GB&#8221;) and are primarily for use in data storage systems, in tiered storage models and where data must be stored reliably for years. Our enterprise SSDs include high-performance NAND-flash SSDs and software solutions designed to improve the performance in various enterprise workload environments. Our enterprise SSDs encompass all major storage interface protocols, including serial attached SCSI (Small Computer System Interface) (&#8220;SAS&#8221;), peripheral component interconnect express (&#8220;PCIe&#8221;), and serial advanced technology attachment (&#8220;SATA&#8221;). We also provide higher value data storage platforms and systems to the market through our vertically integrated scale-out object storage active archive systems. We also offer system solutions such as the InfiniFlash&#8482; System, which provide petabyte scalable capacity with high performance metrics at compelling economics. 

Client Devices 

Client devices consist of HDDs and SSDs for desktop PCs, notebook PCs, gaming consoles, set top boxes, security surveillance systems and other computing devices, embedded NAND-flash storage for mobile phones, tablets, notebook PCs and other portable and wearable devices, as well as in automotive and connected home applications, and NAND-flash wafers. Our HDDs and SSDs are designed for use in devices requiring high performance, reliability and capacity with various attributes such as low cost per GB, quiet acoustics, low power consumption and protection against shocks. Our embedded storage is designed to meet the increasing demand for increased internal storage for mobile phones, tablets, notebooks and other portable and wearable devices, as well as in automotive and connected home applications. Our embedded NAND-flash storage products include custom embedded solutions and our iNAND &#174; &#32;embedded flash products, which include our multi-chip package, or MCP, solutions that combine NAND and mobile dynamic random-access memory (&#8220;DRAM&#8221;) in an integrated package. 

Client Solutions 

Client solutions consist of HDDs embedded into WD- and HGST-branded external storage products and SanDisk-branded removable NAND-flash products which include cards, universal serial bus (&#8220;USB&#8221;) flash drives and wireless drives. Our external HDD storage products provide high quality, reliable storage for backup and capacity expansion in both mobile and desktop form factors that are designed to keep digital content secure while providing portable storage. Our removable cards are designed primarily for use in mobile products such as smartphones, tablets, imaging systems, action video cameras, security surveillance systems and other consumer applications. Our USB flash drives are used in the computing and consumer markets, and are designed for high-performance and reliability. Our wireless drive products allow in-field back up of created content, as well as wireless streaming of high-definition movies, photos, music and documents to tablets, smartphones and PCs. 

Technology 

Rotating Magnetic Storage 

HDDs provide non-volatile data storage based on the recording of magnetic information on a spinning disk. The storage capacity of an HDD is given by the number of disks in the HDD enclosure multiplied by the surface area of each disk multiplied by the areal density (bits per unit area) of the magnetic bits recorded on the disk surface. Improvements over time in magnetic recording areal density (HDD capacity) have been enabled largely through advancements in recording head and magnetic media technology. We develop and manufacture a substantial portion of the recording heads and magnetic media used in our hard drive products. As areal density increases, we can achieve greater HDD capacities and/or lower product costs over time. We invest considerable resources in R&#38;D, manufacturing infrastructure and capital equipment for recording head and media technology, as well as in other aspects of the magnetic recording system such as HDD mechanics, controller and firmware technology, in order to secure our competitive position and cost structure. 

Industry-standard interfaces allow the drives to communicate with the host system. The primary interface for PCs is SATA and the primary interfaces for enterprise systems are Fibre Channel, SAS, SATA and PCIe. 

Solid State Storage 

Solid state storage products provide non-volatile storage based on NAND-flash technology. We develop and manufacture solid state storage products in different form factors for a variety of different markets, including enterprise or cloud storage, client storage, mobile devices and removable memory devices. 

Our solid state storage products leverage our internal NAND-flash technology which we develop and manufacture through our business ventures with Toshiba. We focus significant research, development and effort on developing highly reliable, high-performance, cost-effective NAND-flash technology. We have successfully developed and commercialized 2-bits per cell flash multi&#8209;level cell (&#8220;X2&#8221;) and 3-bits per cell flash multi&#8209;level cell (&#8220;X3&#8221;) technologies, which have enabled significant cost reduction and growth in NAND-flash usage. A majority of our NAND manufacturing capacity utilizes the 15-nanometer node and we expect this node to be our last technology node on 2D NAND-flash architecture. To drive further cost reduction in NAND, we are transitioning to a 3-dimensional NAND (&#8220;3D NAND&#8221;) architecture. 

In July 2016, we announced that we have successfully developed our next generation 3D NAND technology, BiCS3, with 64 layers of vertical storage capability. BiCS3 will feature the use of X3 technology along with advances in high aspect ratio semiconductor processing. We expect to develop and commercialize additional generations of 3D NAND technologies over the next several years while continuing to utilize our 2D NAND technology for certain markets and applications. 

With Toshiba, we are also investing in 3D resistive random-access memory (&#8220;ReRAM&#8221;) technology, and we are collaborating with Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP on the further development of 3D ReRAM for use in storage class memory applications. We have also initiated, defined and developed standards to meet new market needs and to promote wide acceptance of flash storage standards through interoperability and ease-of-use. 

Our solid state storage products generally leverage a common platform for various products within product families, and in some cases across product families, resulting in the commonality of components which reduces our exposure to changes in demand, facilitates inventory management and allows us to achieve lower costs through purchasing economies. This platform strategy also enables our customers to leverage their qualification efforts onto successive product models. For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Research and Development 

We devote substantial resources to the development of new products and the improvement of existing products. We focus our engineering efforts on coordinating our product design and manufacturing processes to bring our products to market in a cost-effective and timely manner. R&#38;D expenses totaled $1.6 billion , $1.6 billion &#32;and $1.7 billion &#32;in 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Patents, Licenses and Proprietary Information 

We have more than 13,500 &#32;active patents and have many patent applications in process. We believe that although our active patents and patent applications have considerable value, the successful manufacturing and marketing of our products depends primarily upon the technical and managerial competence of our staff. Accordingly, the patents held and applied for do not ensure our future success. 

In addition to patent protection of certain intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. We believe that our non-patented intellectual property, particularly some of our process technology, is an important factor in our success. We rely upon non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. Despite these safeguards, there is a risk that competitors may obtain and use such information. The laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business may provide less protection for confidential information than the laws of the United States (&#8220;U.S.&#8221;). 

We rely on certain technology that we license from other parties to manufacture and sell our products. We believe that we have adequate cross-licenses and other agreements in place in addition to our own intellectual property portfolio to compete successfully in the storage industry. For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10&#8209;K. 

Manufacturing 

We believe that we have significant know-how, unique product manufacturing processes, test and tooling, execution skills, and human resources to continue to be successful and to grow, as necessary, our manufacturing operations. We strive to maintain manufacturing flexibility, high manufacturing yields, reliable products and high-quality components. The critical elements of our production of HDD and NAND-flash products are high-volume and utilization, low-cost assembly and testing, strict adherence to quality metrics and maintaining close relationships with our strategic component suppliers to access best-in-class technology and manufacturing capacity. 

HDD and NAND-flash product manufacturing is a complex process involving the production and assembly of precision components with narrow tolerances and thorough testing. The assembly process occurs in a &#8220;clean room&#8221; environment that demands skill in process engineering and efficient space utilization to control the operating costs of this manufacturing environment. Our clean room manufacturing process consists of modular production units, each of which contains a number of work cells. We continually evaluate our manufacturing processes in an effort to increase productivity, sustain and improve quality and decrease manufacturing costs. We continually evaluate which steps in the manufacturing process would benefit from automation and how automated manufacturing processes can improve productivity and reduce manufacturing costs. 

A majority of our NAND-flash supply requirements for our NAND-flash products is obtained from our business ventures with Toshiba, which provide us with leading-edge, high-quality, low-cost NAND-flash wafers. This represents a captive supply and we are obligated to take our share of the output from these ventures or pay the fixed costs associated with that capacity. See &#8220;Ventures with Toshiba&#8221; below for additional information. While a majority of our flash memory supply utilized for our products is purchased from these ventures, from time-to-time, we also purchase flash memory from other NAND-flash manufacturers, which we refer to as non-captive. While we do not unilaterally control the operations of these ventures, we believe that our business venture relationship with Toshiba helps us to reduce the costs of producing our products, increases our ability to control the quality of our products and speeds delivery of our products to our customers. Our vertically integrated manufacturing operations for our NAND-flash products are concentrated in three locations, with our business ventures with Toshiba located in Yokkaichi, Japan, and our in-house assembly and test operations located in Shanghai, China and Penang, Malaysia. 

We also leverage the efficiencies of contract manufacturers when strategically advantageous. For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10&#8209;K. 

Materials and Supplies 

The main components of the hard drive are a head-disk-assembly (&#8220;HDA&#8221;) and a printed circuit board assembly (&#8220;PCBA&#8221;). The HDA includes recording heads, magnetic media, head positioning mechanism (&#8220;actuator&#8221;) and spindle motor. A rigid base and top cover contain these components in a contamination-controlled environment. One or more disks positioned around a motor-driven spindle hub that rotates the disks comprise the disk-pack assembly. The disk is made up of a smooth substrate on which thin layers of magnetic materials are deposited. The head stack assembly (&#8220;HSA&#8221;) is comprised of a magnetic positioner and a pivot-arm module on which the head gimbal assemblies (&#8220;HGAs&#8221;) including suspension, are mounted. Each disk surface has a head suspended directly above it, which can read data from or write data to the spinning disk. Other key components of our hard drives are pre-amps and voice coil magnets. 

The PCBA includes both standard and custom integrated circuits, an interface connector to the host computer and a power connector. The integrated circuits on the printed circuit board typically include a power device that controls the motor and HSA positioner and a system-on-chip (&#8220;SoC&#8221;) comprised of a drive interface, controller and recording channel. The drive interface receives instructions from the host computer, while the controller directs the flow of data to or from the disks and controls the heads. The location of data on each disk is logically maintained in concentric tracks divided into sectors. The host computer sends instructions to the controller to read data from or write data to the disks, based on logical track and sector locations. Guided by instructions from the controller, the HSA pivots in an arc across the disk until it reaches the selected track of a disk, where the data is recorded or retrieved. 

We design and manufacture a substantial portion of the recording heads and magnetic media required for our products. Consequently, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and less able to take advantage of recording head and magnetic media technologies developed by other manufacturers. We depend on an external supply base for all remaining components and materials for use in our HDD product design and manufacturing. 

NAND-flash memory and controllers are the main components in our NAND-flash products. A majority of our NAND-flash memory is primarily supplied by our business ventures with Toshiba. Controllers are primarily designed in-house and manufactured by third-party foundries or acquired from third party suppliers. We believe the use of our in-house assembly and test facilities, as well as contract manufacturers, provides flexibility and gives us access to increased production capacity. We have developed deep relationships with these vendors and Toshiba to establish continuous supply of NAND-flash memory and controllers. 

We generally retain multiple suppliers for our component requirements but in some instances use sole or single sources for business or technology reasons. Currently, we believe that there are no major issues with component availability. For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Ventures with Toshiba 

We and Toshiba currently operate three business ventures in 300-millimeter NAND-flash manufacturing facilities in Yokkaichi, Japan, which provide us leading-edge, cost-competitive NAND wafers for our end products. Flash Partners Ltd., which operates primarily in Toshiba&#8217;s Fab 3 facility (&#8220;Fab 3&#8221;) was formed in September 2004. Flash Alliance Ltd., which operates primarily in Toshiba&#8217;s Fab 4 facility (&#8220;Fab 4&#8221;) was formed in July 2006. Flash Forward Ltd., which operates primarily in Toshiba&#8217;s Fab 5 facility (&#8220;Fab 5&#8221;) was formed in July 2010. We refer to Flash Partners, Flash Alliance and Flash Forward collectively as Flash Ventures. In addition, we have a facility agreement with Toshiba related to the construction and operation of Toshiba&#8217;s &#8220;New Fab 2&#8221; fabrication facility, which is primarily intended to provide additional clean room space to convert a portion of existing 2D NAND wafer capacity to 3D NAND. 

Through Flash Ventures, we and Toshiba collaborate in the development and manufacture of NAND-flash wafers using semiconductor manufacturing equipment owned or leased by each of the Flash Venture entities. We hold a 49.9% ownership position in each of the Flash Venture entities. Each Flash Venture entity purchases wafers from Toshiba at cost and then resells those wafers to us and Toshiba at cost plus a mark-up. We are committed to purchase half of Flash Ventures&#8217; NAND wafer supply or pay for half of Flash Ventures&#8217; fixed costs regardless of the output we choose to purchase. We are also committed to fund 49.9% to 50% of Flash Ventures&#8217; investments to the extent that Flash Ventures&#8217; operating cash flow is insufficient to fund these investments. We and Toshiba also collaborate on certain R&#38;D activities. For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Sales and Distribution 

We maintain sales offices in selected parts of the world including the major geographies of the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. Our international sales, which include sales to foreign subsidiaries of U.S. companies but do not include sales to U.S. subsidiaries of foreign companies, represented 72% , 79% &#32;and 80% &#32;of our net revenue for 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. Sales to international customers are subject to certain risks not normally encountered in domestic operations, including exposure to tariffs and various trade regulations. For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

We perform our marketing and advertising functions internally and through outside firms utilizing both consumer media and trade publications targeting various reseller and end-user categories. We also maintain customer relationships through direct communication and by providing information and support through our website. In accordance with standard storage industry practice, we provide distributors and retailers with limited price protection and programs under which we reimburse certain marketing expenditures. We also provide distributors, resellers and OEMs with other sales incentive programs. 

Original Equipment Manufacturers. OEMs, including large-scale datacenter operators , &#32;system integrators and hyperscale customers who bundle, embed or integrate our storage solutions, purchase our products, either directly or through a contract manufacturer such as an original design manufacturer (&#8220;ODM&#8221;) and assemble them into the devices they build. OEMs typically seek to qualify two or more providers for each generation of products and generally will purchase products from those vendors for the life of that product. Many of our OEM customers utilize just-in-time inventory management processes. As a result, for certain OEMs, we maintain a base stock of finished goods inventory in facilities located near or adjacent to the OEM&#8217;s operations. In addition, we also sell directly to cloud infrastructure players as well as flash storage solutions to customers that offer our products under their own brand name in the retail market, which we classify as OEMs for purposes of channel information. 

Distributors. &#32;We use a broad group of distributors to sell our products to non-direct customers such as small computer and consumer electronics (&#8220;CE&#8221;) manufacturers, dealers, value-added resellers, systems integrators, online retailers and other resellers. Distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements with us for the purchase and redistribution of our products in specific territories. 

Retailers. We sell our branded products directly to a select group of major retailers such as computer superstores, warehouse clubs, online retailers and computer electronics stores, and authorize sales through distributors to smaller retailers. The retail channel complements our other sales channels, while helping to build brand awareness for us and our products. We also sell our branded products through our websites. 

For fiscal 2016 , no &#32;single customer accounted for 10% &#32;or more of our net revenue. For both fiscal 2015 &#32;and 2014 , Hewlett-Packard Company accounted for 11% &#32;of our net revenue. For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For additional information regarding revenue recognition, sales by geographic region and major customers, see Part II, Item 8, Notes 1 and 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Backlog 

A substantial portion of our orders are generally for shipments within 60 days of the placement of the order. Customers&#8217; purchase orders may be canceled with relatively short notice to us, with little or no cost to the customer, or modified by customers to provide for delivery at a later date. In addition, for many of our OEMs utilizing just-in-time inventory, we do not generally require firm order commitments and instead, receive a periodic forecast of requirements. Therefore, backlog information as of the end of a particular period is not necessarily indicative of future levels of our revenue and profit and may not be comparable to prior periods. 

Seasonality 

We have historically experienced seasonal fluctuations in our business with higher levels of demand in the first and second quarters of our fiscal year as a result of increased customer spending. Seasonality can also be impacted by the growth in emerging markets and macroeconomic conditions. For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Service and Warranty 

We generally warrant our newly manufactured products against defects in materials and workmanship from one to five years from the date of manufacture depending on the type of product, with a small number of products having a warranty ranging up to ten years or more. Our warranty obligation is generally limited to repair or replacement. We have engaged third parties in various countries in multiple regions to provide various levels of testing, processing or recertification of returned products for our customers. For additional information regarding our service and warranty policy, see Part II, Item 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Environmental Regulation 

We are subject to a variety of U.S. and foreign laws and regulations in connection with our operations and relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and the clean-up of contaminated sites. Some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution. These permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. We believe that we have obtained or are in the process of obtaining all necessary environmental permits for our operations. 

We have established environmental management systems and continually update our environmental policies and standard operating procedures for our operations worldwide. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. We budget for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. 

Our properties have in some cases been operated for many years and may contain soil or groundwater contamination. In certain of our facilities we are undertaking voluntary monitoring of soil and groundwater. Based on available information, including our voluntary monitoring activities, we do not believe that we have a current affirmative legal obligation for any remedial action. 

&#160; For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Employees 

As of July 1, 2016 , we employed a total of 72,878 &#32;employees worldwide, excluding temporary employees and contractors. Many of our employees are highly skilled, and our continued success depends in part upon our ability to attract and retain such employees. Accordingly, we offer employee benefit programs that we believe are, in the aggregate, competitive with those offered by our competitors. 

While the substantial majority of our employees are not party to a collective bargaining agreement, a majority of our employees in Japan and China are subject to collective bargaining agreements. We consider our employee relations to be good. For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Corporate Responsibility 

We believe that corporate social responsibility is an essential factor for our overall corporate success. This includes adopting ethical and sustainable business practices to direct how we do business while keeping the interests of our stakeholders and the environment in focus. 

We strive to uphold the following principles: 

&#8226; 

treat all employees with dignity and respect; 

&#8226; 

set up processes and procedures intended to comply with applicable laws and regulations as well as our internal guidelines and uphold ethical standards; 

&#8226; 

establish policies and procedures intended to promote the idea that the quality of our products and services, consistency of production and employee well-being are predicated on a safe and healthy work environment; and 

&#8226; 

establish policies and procedures intended to promote environmental responsibility as an integral part of our culture. 

Available Information 

We maintain an Internet website at www.westerndigital.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at www.westerndigital.com, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the electronic filing of these reports with, or furnishing of these reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). Any materials we file with the SEC are available at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Additional information about the operation of the Public Reference Room can also be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including us. 

