 Item 1. &#32; Business 

Overview 

Cree, Inc. (Cree, we, our, or us) is a leading innovator of lighting-class light emitting diode (LED) products, lighting products and wide bandgap semiconductor products for power and radio-frequency (RF) applications. Our products are targeted for applications such as indoor and outdoor lighting, video displays, transportation, electronic signs and signals, power supplies, inverters and wireless systems. As discussed more fully below, we operate in three reportable segments: Lighting Products, LED Products and Power and RF Products. 

Our lighting products primarily consist of LED lighting systems and bulbs. We design, manufacture and sell lighting fixtures and lamps for the commercial, industrial and consumer markets. 

Our LED products consist of LED components, LED chips and silicon carbide (SiC) materials. Our LED products enable our customers to develop and market LED-based products for lighting, video screens and other industrial applications. 

In addition, we develop, manufacture and sell power and RF devices based on wide bandgap semiconductor materials such as SiC and gallium nitride (GaN). Our power products are made from SiC and provide increased efficiency, faster switching speeds and reduced system size and weight over comparable silicon-based power devices. Our RF devices are made from GaN and provide improved efficiency, bandwidth and frequency of operation as compared to silicon or gallium arsenide (GaAs). 

As discussed more fully below in &#8220;Recent Developments,&#8221; on July 13, 2016, we executed a definitive agreement to sell our Power and RF Products segment and certain related portions of our SiC materials and gemstones business included in our LED Products segment to Infineon Technologies AG (Infineon). 

The majority of our products are manufactured at our production facilities located in North Carolina, Wisconsin and China. We also use contract manufacturers for certain products and aspects of product fabrication, assembly and packaging. We operate research and development facilities in North Carolina, California, Wisconsin, India, Italy and China (including Hong Kong). 

Cree, Inc. is a North Carolina corporation established in 1987 and is headquartered in Durham, North Carolina. For further information about our consolidated revenue and earnings, please see our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. 

Recent Developments 

On July 13, 2016, we executed an Asset Purchase Agreement (the APA) with Infineon. The transaction, which was approved by both our Board of Directors and Infineon&#8217;s Supervisory Board, is expected to close by the end of calendar year 2016, subject to customary closing conditions and governmental approvals. 

Pursuant to the APA, we will sell to Infineon, and Infineon will (i) purchase from us (a) the assets comprising our Power and RF Products segment, including manufacturing facilities and equipment, inventory, intellectual property rights, contracts, real estate, and the outstanding equity interests of Cree Fayetteville, Inc, one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, and (b) certain non-LED related portions of our SiC materials and gemstones business included within our LED Products segment (we refer to the business that we are selling, collectively, as our Wolfspeed Business) and (ii) assume certain liabilities related to the Wolfspeed business. We will retain certain liabilities associated with the Wolfspeed business arising prior to the closing of the transaction. Infineon is expected to hire most of our approximately 545 Wolfspeed employees either at the closing of the transaction or following a transition period. 

The purchase price for the Wolfspeed business will be $850 million in cash, which is subject to certain adjustments. In connection with the transaction, we will also enter into certain ancillary and related agreements with Infineon, including (i) an intellectual property assignment and license agreement, which will assign to Infineon certain intellectual property that we own and license to Infineon certain additional intellectual property that we own, (ii) a transition services agreement, which is designed to ensure a smooth transition of the Wolfspeed business to Infineon, and (iii) a wafer supply agreement, pursuant to which we will supply Infineon with silicon carbide wafers and silicon carbide boules for a transitional period of time. 

The APA contains customary representations, warranties and covenants, including covenants to cooperate in seeking regulatory approvals, as well as our agreement to not compete with the Wolfspeed business for five years following the closing of the transaction and to indemnify Infineon for certain damages that Infineon may suffer following the closing of the transaction. 

Infineon&#8217;s obligation to purchase the Wolfspeed business is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions set forth in the APA, including regulatory approval under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and certain similar non-U.S. regulations, the approval of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States and other customary closing conditions. The APA provides for customary termination rights of the parties and also provides that in the event the APA is terminated for certain specified regulatory-related circumstances, Infineon may be required to pay us a termination fee ranging from $12.5 million to $42.5 million. 

Reportable Segments 

Our three &#32;reportable segments are: 

&#8226; 

Lighting Products 

&#8226; 

LED Products 

&#8226; 

Power and RF Products 

Reportable segments are components of an entity that have separate financial data that the entity&#8217;s Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) regularly reviews when allocating resources and assessing performance. Our CODM is the Chief Executive Officer. 

For financial results by reportable segment, please refer to Note 14 , &#8220;Reportable Segments,&#8221; in our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. 

Products by Reportable Segment 

Lighting Products Segment 

Lighting Products revenue was $889.1 million , $906.5 million , and $706.4 million , representing 55% , 55% , and 43% &#32;of our revenue for the fiscal years ended June 26, 2016 , June 28, 2015 &#32;and June 29, 2014 , respectively. Lighting Products gross profit was $238.2 million , $235.5 million &#32;and $197.3 million &#32;and gross margin was 27% , 26% &#32;and 28% &#32;for the fiscal years 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. 

Our Lighting Products segment primarily consists of LED lighting systems and bulbs. We design, manufacture and sell lighting systems for indoor and outdoor applications, with our primary focus on LED lighting systems for the commercial, industrial and consumer markets. Lighting products are sold to distributors, retailers and direct to customers. Our portfolio of lighting products is designed for use in settings such as office and retail space, restaurants and hospitality, schools and universities, manufacturing, healthcare, airports, municipal, residential, street lighting and parking structures, among other applications. 

LED Products Segment 

LED Products revenue was $610.8 million , $602.1 million &#32;and $833.7 million &#32;representing 38% , 37% , and 51% &#32;of revenue for the fiscal years ended June 26, 2016 , June 28, 2015 &#32;and June 29, 2014 , respectively. LED Products gross profit was $212.4 million , $190.9 million &#32;and $381.0 million &#32;and gross margin was 35% , 32% &#32;and 46% &#32;for the fiscal years 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. 

Our LED Products segment includes LED chips, LED components and SiC materials. 

LED Chips 

Our LED chip products include blue and green LED chips based on GaN and related materials. LED chips or die are solid state electronic components used in a number of applications and are currently available in a variety of brightness levels, wavelengths (colors) and sizes. We use our LED chips in the manufacturing of our LED components. Customers use our blue and green LED chips in a variety of applications including video screens, gaming displays, function indicator lights and automotive backlights, headlamps and directional indicators. Customers may also combine our blue LED chips with phosphors to create white LEDs, which are used in various applications for indoor and outdoor illumination and backlighting, full-color display screens, liquid crystal display (LCD) backlighting, white keypads and the camera flash function. 

LED Components 

Our LED components include a range of packaged LED products, from our XLamp &#174; &#32;LED components and LED modules for lighting applications to our high-brightness LED components. 

Our XLamp LED components and LED modules are designed to meet a broad range of market needs for lighting applications including general illumination (both indoor and outdoor applications), portable, architectural, signal and transportation lighting. 

We use our XLamp LED components in our own lighting products. We also sell XLamp LED components externally to customers and distributors for use in a variety of products, primarily for lighting applications. 

Our high-brightness LED components consist of surface mount (SMD) and through-hole packaged LED products. Our SMD LED component products are available in a full range of colors designed to meet a broad range of market needs, including video, signage, general illumination, transportation, gaming and specialty lighting. Our through-hole packaged LED component products are available in a full range of colors primarily designed for the signage market and provide users with color and brightness consistency across a wide viewing area. 

SiC Materials 

Our SiC materials are targeted for customers who use them to manufacture products for RF, power switching, gemstones and other applications. Corporate, government and university customers also buy SiC materials for research and development directed at RF and high power devices. We sell our SiC materials in bulk form, as a bare wafer and with SiC or GaN epitaxial films. 

Power and RF Products Segment 

Power and RF Products revenue was $116.7 million , $123.9 million , and $107.5 million , representing 7% , 8% &#32;and 6% &#32;of our revenue for the fiscal years ended June 26, 2016 , June 28, 2015 &#32;and June 29, 2014 , respectively. Power and RF Products gross profit was $56.1 million , $67.8 million &#32;and $60.7 million &#32;and gross margin was 48% , 55% &#32;and 56% &#32;for the fiscal years 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. 

Our Power and RF Products segment includes power devices and RF devices. 

Power Devices 

Our SiC-based power products include Schottky diodes, SiC metal semiconductor field-effect transistors (MOSFETs), and SiC power modules at various voltages. Our power products provide increased efficiency, faster switching speeds and reduced system size and weight over comparable silicon-based power devices. Power products are sold primarily to customers and distributors for use in power supplies used in computer servers, solar inverters, uninterruptible power supplies, industrial power supplies and other applications. We are working to develop additional and improved SiC-based power device solutions to expand the potential uses and applications for our products. 

RF Devices 

Our RF products include a variety of GaN high electron mobility transistors (HEMTs) and monolithic microwave integrated circuits (MMICs), which are optimized for military, telecom and other commercial applications. Our RF devices are made from SiC and GaN and provide improved efficiency, bandwidths and frequency of operation as compared to silicon or GaAs. We also provide custom die manufacturing for GaN HEMTs and MMICs that allow a customer to design its own custom RF circuits to be fabricated by us, or have us design and fabricate products that meet their specific requirements. 

Financial Information about Geographic Areas of Customers and Assets 

We derive a significant portion of our revenue from product sales to international customers. For information concerning geographic areas of our customers and geographic information concerning our long-lived assets, please see Note 14 , &#8220;Reportable Segments,&#8221; in our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. International operations expose us to risks that are different from operating in the United States, including foreign currency translation and transaction risk, risk of changes in tax laws, application of import/export laws and regulations and other risks described further in Item 1A, &#8220;Risk Factors,&#8221; of this Annual Report. 

Research and Development 

We invest significant resources in research and development. Our research and development activity includes efforts to: 

&#8226; 

increase the quality, performance and diameter of our substrate and epitaxial materials; 

&#8226; 

continually improve our manufacturing processes; 

&#8226; 

develop brighter, more efficient and lower cost LED chip and component products; 

&#8226; 

create new, and improve existing, LED components; 

&#8226; 

improve existing LED lighting products and develop new LED lighting systems and related controls; and 

&#8226; 

develop higher power diodes/switches and higher power/linearity RF devices. 

When our customers participate in funding our research and development programs, we recognize the amount funded as a reduction of research and development expenses to the extent that our customers&#8217; funding does not exceed our respective research and development costs. Research and development expenses were $168.8 million , $182.8 million &#32;and $181.4 million &#32;for the fiscal years ended June 26, 2016 , June 28, 2015 &#32;and June 29, 2014 , respectively. For further information about our research and development, see &#8220;Research and Development&#8221; in Item 7, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 

Sales and Marketing 

We continue to make investments to expand our sales, marketing, technical applications support, and distribution capabilities to sell our lighting products and further enable new and existing customers to implement LED and power technology into their products. We also continue to make investments to promote and build market awareness of the Cree brand. Our sales, marketing and technical applications teams include personnel throughout North America, Asia and Europe. 

Customers 

We have historically had a few key customers who represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenue. In fiscal 2016 , revenue from Arrow Electronics, Inc. (Arrow) accounted for 10% &#32;of our total consolidated revenue. In fiscal 2015, revenue from Arrow and The Home Depot, Inc. (Home Depot) accounted for 12% &#32;and 11% &#32;of our total consolidated revenue, respectively. In fiscal 2014, revenue from Arrow and Home Depot accounted for 13% &#32;and 11% &#32;of our total consolidated revenue. Arrow is a customer of our LED Products and Power and RF Products segments. Home Depot is a customer of our Lighting Products segment. For further discussion regarding customer concentration, please see Note 15 , &#8220;Concentrations of Risk,&#8221; in our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. The loss of any large customer could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 

Distribution 

A substantial portion of our products are sold to distributors. Distributors stock inventory and sell our products to their own customer base, which may include: value added resellers, manufacturers who incorporate our products into their own manufactured goods and ultimate end users of our products. We also utilize third-party sales representatives who generally do not maintain a product inventory; instead, their customers place orders directly with us or through distributors. We also sell a portion of our products through retailers, which stock inventory and sell our products directly to consumers. 

Seasonality 

Our Lighting Products segment historically has experienced, and in the future may experience, seasonally lower lighting fixture sales due to winter weather, impacting our fiscal second and third quarters. In addition, the retail lighting industry has historically had seasonally lower sales of light bulbs in the summer, which has impacted our fiscal fourth quarter and which may impact our fiscal first quarter. Our LED Products segment historically has experienced, and in the future may experience, seasonally lower sales during our fiscal third quarter due to the Chinese New Year holiday. Our Power and RF Products segment is not generally subject to seasonality. 

Our sales also vary based on other factors such as customer demand and government regulation. 

If anticipated sales or shipments do not occur when expected, our results of operations for that quarter, and potentially for future quarters, may be adversely affected. 

Backlog 

Our backlog at June 26, 2016 , the last day of our 2016 &#32;fiscal year, was approximately $181.7 million , compared with a backlog of approximately $238.4 million &#32;at June 28, 2015 , the last day of our 2015 &#32;fiscal year. Because of the generally short cycle time between order and shipment and occasional customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders (which at times may be made without significant penalty), we do not believe that our backlog, as of any particular date, is necessarily indicative of actual net revenue for any future period. Additionally, our June 26, 2016 &#32;backlog contained $45.0 million &#32;of research contracts signed with the U.S. Government, for which approximately $33.7 million &#32;had not been appropriated as of the last day of fiscal 2016 . Our June 28, 2015 &#32;backlog contained $29.5 million &#32;of research contracts signed with the U.S. Government, for which approximately $17.6 million &#32;was not appropriated as of the last day of fiscal 2015 . Our backlog could be adversely affected if 

the U.S. Government exercises its rights to terminate our government contracts or does not appropriate and allocate all of the funding contemplated by the contracts. 

Sources of Raw Materials 

We depend on a number of suppliers for certain raw materials, components and equipment used in manufacturing our products, including certain key materials and equipment used in critical stages of our manufacturing processes. We generally purchase these limited source items pursuant to purchase orders and have limited guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers. Our suppliers, located around the world, can be subject to many constraints limiting supply that are beyond our control. We believe our current supply of essential materials is sufficient to meet our needs. However, shortages have occurred from time to time and could occur again. 

Competition by Reportable Segment 

Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with the evolving technology standards of the industries we serve. These industries are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, changes in end user and customer requirements, and a competitive pricing environment. The evolving nature of these industries may render our existing or future products obsolete, noncompetitive or unmarketable. Any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Lighting Products Segment 

Our Lighting Products segment currently faces competition from traditional lighting fixture companies, lamp manufacturers and from non-traditional companies focused on LED lighting systems including fixtures and lamps. Lighting companies such as Acuity Brands, Inc., the Cooper Lighting division of Eaton Corporation plc, General Electric Company, Hubbell Incorporated, Philips and OSRAM are the main competitors in this market, but there are also many small and medium sized lighting competitors. Increasingly, other start-up companies are also beginning to emerge in the LED lighting markets in which we compete. 

Our LED lighting products compete against traditional lighting products that use incandescent, fluorescent, halogen, ceramic metal halide, high pressure sodium or other lighting technologies. Our LED lighting products compete against traditional lighting products based upon superior energy savings, extended life, improved lighting quality and lower total cost of ownership. We also compete with LED-based products from traditional and non-traditional lamp and fixture companies, some of which are customers for our LED chips and LED components. Our products compete on the basis of color quality and consistency, superior light output, reduced energy consumption, brand, customer service and lower total cost of ownership. 

LED Products Segment 

Our LED Products segment&#8217;s primary competitors are Nichia Corporation (Nichia), OSRAM Opto Semiconductors GmbH (OSRAM), Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V. (Philips), and Samsung LED Company (Samsung). 

LED Chips 

The primary competition for our LED chip products comes from companies that manufacture and/or sell nitride-based LED chips. We consider Nichia to be a competitor because it sells LED chips to a select number of LED packaging companies and it sells packaged LEDs that most often compete directly with packaged LEDs made and sold by our chip customers. We believe, based on industry information, that Nichia currently has the largest market share for nitride-based LEDs. 

There are many other LED chip producers who sell blue, green and white LED chip products, including OSRAM, Toyoda Gosei Co., Ltd., Epistar Corporation, and Sanan Optoelectronics Co., Ltd. These competitors make products for a variety of applications in a range of performance levels that compete directly with our LED chip products. 

Overall, we believe that performance, price and strength of intellectual property are the most significant factors to compete successfully in the nitride LED market. We believe our products are well positioned to meet the market performance requirements; however, there is significant pricing pressure from a number of competitors, including new companies based in China. We continually strive to improve our competitive position by developing brighter and higher performing LED chips while focusing on lowering costs. 

LED Components 

The market for lighting class LED components is concentrated primarily in indoor and outdoor commercial lighting; specialty lighting, including torch lamps (flashlights); color changing architectural lighting; signs and signals; and transportation. Nichia, OSRAM, Lumileds Holding B.V. and Samsung are the main competitors in these markets. These companies sell LED components 

that compete indirectly with our target customers for LED chips and compete directly with our XLamp LED components and LED modules. There are a large number of other companies, primarily based in Asia, that offer products designed to compete both directly and indirectly with our LED components in lighting and other applications. We are positioning our XLamp LED components and LED modules to compete in this market based on performance, price and usability. 

Our high-brightness LED components compete with a larger number of companies around the world in a variety of applications including signage, video, transportation, gaming and specialty lighting. We are positioning our high-brightness LED components to compete in this market based on performance, price, availability and usability. 

SiC Materials 

We have continued to maintain our well-established leadership position in the sale of SiC bulk material, SiC wafer and SiC and GaN epitaxy products. As the market adoption of the technology increases enabling greatly improved performance levels of the power device designs by our customer base, we are experiencing increased competition from companies such as Dow Corning, II-VI Advanced Materials, SiCrystal and Nippon Steel. We believe our leading technology and leveraged production scale position us to supply high yield wafers in volume to the device manufacturers in the market. 

Power and RF Products Segment 

Power Devices 

Our SiC-based power devices compete with SiC power semiconductor solutions offered by Infineon, Microsemi Corporation, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Rohm Co. Ltd. and STMicroelectronics, Inc. Our products also compete with existing semiconductor devices offered by a variety of manufacturers. Our power products compete in the power semiconductor market on the basis of performance and reliability. 

RF Devices 

Our RF devices compete with M/A-COM Technology Solutions Inc., Microsemi Corporation, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Sumitomo Electric Device Innovations, Inc. and Qorvo, Inc. which all offer GaN RF products that compete directly with our GaN HEMT products. Our products also compete with a variety of companies offering silicon and GaAs-based products. Our products compete in the RF semiconductor market on the basis of reliability, performance, design predictability and overall system price. 

Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights 

We believe it is important to protect our investment in technology by obtaining and enforcing intellectual property rights, including rights under patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws. We seek to protect inventions we consider significant by applying for patents in the United States and other countries when appropriate. We have also acquired, through license grants, purchases and assignments, rights to patents on inventions originally developed by others. As of June 26, 2016 , we owned or were the exclusive licensee of 1,821 &#32;issued U.S. patents and approximately 2,978 &#32;foreign patents with various expiration dates extending up to 2040 . We do not consider our business to be materially dependent upon any one patent, and we believe our business will not be materially adversely affected by the expiration of any one patent. For proprietary technology that is not patented, we generally seek to protect the technology and related know-how and information as trade secrets by keeping confidential the information that we believe provides us with a competitive advantage. We attempt to create strong brands for our products and promote our products through trademarks that distinguish them in the market. We may license our customers to use our trademarks in connection with the sale of our products, and we monitor for the proper and authorized use of our marks. 

Licensing activities and lawsuits to enforce intellectual property rights, particularly patent rights, are a common aspect of the semiconductor, LED and lighting industries, and we attempt to ensure respect for our intellectual property rights through appropriate actions. The breadth of our intellectual property rights and the extent to which they can be successfully enforced varies across jurisdictions. We both make and receive inquiries regarding possible patent infringements and possible violations of other intellectual property rights in the normal course of business. Depending on the circumstances, we may seek to negotiate a license or other acceptable resolution. If we are unable to achieve a resolution by agreement, we may seek to enforce our rights or defend our position through litigation. Patent litigation in particular is expensive and the outcome is often uncertain. We believe that the strength of our portfolio of patent rights is important in helping us resolve or avoid such disputes with other companies in our industry. 

Environmental Regulation 

We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. These include statutory and regulatory provisions under which we are responsible for the management of hazardous materials we use and the disposition of hazardous wastes resulting from our manufacturing processes. Failure to comply with such provisions could result in fines and other liabilities to the government or 

third parties, injunctions requiring us to suspend or curtail operations or other remedies, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

Working Capital 

For a discussion of our working capital practices, see &#8220;Liquidity and Capital Resources&#8221; in Item 7, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 

Employees 

As of June 26, 2016 , we employed 6,237 &#32;regular full and part-time employees. We also employ individuals on a temporary full-time basis and use the services of contractors as necessary. Certain of our employees in various countries outside of the United States are subject to laws providing representation rights. 

Available Information 

Our website address is www.cree.com. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, including Interactive Data Files, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC. These reports may be accessed from our website by following the links under &#8220;Investors,&#8221; then &#8220;SEC Filings.&#8221; The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. We have no duty to update or revise any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report or in other reports filed with the SEC, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless we are required to do so by law. A copy of this Annual Report and our other reports is available without charge upon written request to Investor Relations, Cree, Inc., 4600 Silicon Drive, Durham, North Carolina 27703. 

