 Item 1. Business 

W&#38;T Offshore, Inc. is an independent oil and natural gas producer, active in the exploration, development and acquisition of oil and natural gas properties in the Gulf of Mexico. In October 2015, we disposed of substantially all of our onshore oil and natural gas interests with the sale of our Yellow Rose field in the Permian Basin. We retained an overriding royalty interest in the Yellow Rose field production. W&#38;T Offshore, Inc. is a Texas corporation originally organized as a Nevada corporation in 1988, and successor by merger to W&#38;T Oil Properties, Inc., a Louisiana corporation organized in 1983. Our interest in fields, leases, structures and equipment are primarily owned by the parent company, W&#38;T Offshore, Inc. and our wholly-owned subsidiary, W &#38; T Energy VI, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company. 

The Gulf of Mexico is an area where we have developed significant technical expertise and where high production rates associated with hydrocarbon deposits have historically provided us the best opportunity to achieve a rapid return on our invested capital. We have leveraged our significant experience in the conventional shelf (water depths of less than 500 feet) to develop higher impact capital projects in the Gulf of Mexico in both the deepwater (water depths in excess of 500 feet) and the deep shelf (well depths in excess of 15,000 feet and water depths of less than 500 feet). We have acquired rights to explore and develop new prospects and acquired existing oil and natural gas properties in both the deepwater and the deep shelf, while at the same time continuing our focus on the conventional shelf. Over the last several years, we have shifted our focus more toward the deepwater. In the deepwater, we have completed numerous acquisitions and drilled both exploration and development wells, and our deepwater acreage has expanded considerably over the last several years.

As of December 31, 2015, we have interests in offshore leases covering approximately 900,000 gross acres (550,000 net acres) spanning across the outer continental shelf off the coasts of Louisiana, Texas, Mississippi and Alabama. On a gross acreage basis, the conventional shelf constitutes approximately 550,000 acres and deepwater constitutes approximately 350,000 acres of our offshore acreage. 

Based on a reserve report prepared by Netherland, Sewell &#38; Associates, Inc. (&#8220;NSAI&#8221;), our independent petroleum consultants, our total proved reserves at December 31, 2015 were 76.4 million barrels of oil equivalent (&#8220;MMBoe&#8221;) or 458.1 billion cubic feet of gas equivalent (&#8220;Bcfe&#8221;). Approximately 75% of our proved reserves as of such date were classified as proved developed producing, 15% as proved developed non-producing and 10% as proved undeveloped. Classified by product, our proved reserves at December 31, 2015 were 46% crude oil, 9% natural gas liquids (&#8220;NGLs&#8221;) and 45% natural gas. These percentages were determined using the energy-equivalent ratio of six thousand cubic feet (&#8220;Mcf&#8221;) of natural gas to one barrel (&#8220;Bbl&#8221;) of crude oil, condensate or NGLs. This energy-equivalent ratio does not assume price equivalency, and the energy-equivalent prices for crude oil, NGLs and natural gas may differ significantly. Our total proved reserves had an estimated present value of future net revenues discounted at 10% (&#8220;PV-10&#8221;) of $966 million before consideration of cash outflows related to asset retirement obligations (&#8220;ARO&#8221;). Our PV-10 after considering future cash outflows related to ARO was $614 million, and our standardized measure of discounted future cash flows was also $614 million as of December 31, 2015, as no future income taxes were estimated to be paid due to our present tax position. Neither PV-10 nor PV-10 after ARO is a financial measure defined under generally accepted accounting principles (&#8220;GAAP&#8221;). For additional information about our proved reserves and a reconciliation of PV-10 and PV-10 after ARO to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, see Properties &#8211; Proved Reserves under Part I, Item 2 in this Form 10-K. 

We seek to increase our reserves through acquisitions, exploratory and infill drilling, recompletions and workovers. We have focused on acquiring properties where we can develop an inventory of drilling prospects that will enable us to add reserves, production and cash flow post-acquisition. Our acquisition team strives to find properties that will fit our profile and that we believe will add strategic and financial value to our company.

In September 2014, we acquired an additional ownership interest in the Mobile Bay blocks 113 and 132 located in Alabama state waters (the &#8220;Fairway Field&#8221;) and the associated Yellowhammer gas processing plant (collectively &#8220;Fairway&#8221;), which increased our ownership interest from 64.3% to 100%. 

&#160;

In May 2014, we acquired from Woodside Energy (USA) Inc. (&#8220;Woodside&#8221;) certain oil and gas leasehold interests in the Gulf of Mexico (the &#8220;Woodside Properties&#8221;). The Woodside Properties consist of a 20% non-operated working interest in the producing Neptune field (deepwater Atwater Valley blocks 574, 575 and 618), along with an interest in the Neptune tension-leg platform, associated production facilities and various interests in 24 other deepwater lease blocks. 

In November and December 2013, we acquired from Callon Petroleum Operating Company (&#8220;Callon&#8221;) certain oil and gas leasehold interests in the Gulf of Mexico (the &#8220;Callon Properties&#8221;). The Callon Properties consist of a 15% non-operated working interest in the Medusa field (deepwater Mississippi Canyon blocks 538 and 582), interest in associated production facilities and various interests in other non-operated fields. 

Under current commodity pricing conditions, we expect in the near term to continue to focus on conserving capital and maintaining liquidity. Accordingly, while we will continue to evaluate opportunistic acquisitions, we expect that our acquisition activities will be reduced until the outlook for the future commodity pricing environment improves or unless financing is available on reasonable terms that would not significantly impair our available liquidity.

From time to time, as part of our business strategy, we sell various properties. In October 2015, we sold our ownership interests in the Yellow Rose onshore field to Ajax Resources, LLC (&#8220;Ajax&#8221;). The field is located in the Permian Basin, West Texas, and covers approximately 25,800 net acres. In addition to the cash purchase price, we were assigned a non-expense bearing overriding royalty interest (&#8220;ORRI&#8221;) in production from the working interests assigned to Ajax, which percentage varies on a sliding scale from one percent for each month that the prompt month New York Mercantile Exchange (&#8220;NYMEX&#8221;) trading price for light sweet crude oil is at or below $70.00 per barrel to a maximum of four percent for each month that such NYMEX trading price is greater than $90.00 per barrel. Our internal estimate of the assigned proved reserves at the date of the sale to Ajax was 19.0 MMBoe, consisting of approximately 71% oil, 11% NGL and 18% natural gas. In 2014, we did not have any significant property sales. In 2013, we sold our non-operated working interests in the Green Canyon 60 field, the Green Canyon 19 field and the West Delta area block 29, all located in the Gulf of Mexico. 

Additional information on acquisitions and divestitures can be found under Properties in Part I, Item 2, Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7, and in Financial Statements and Supplementary Data &#8211; Note 2 &#8211; Acquisitions and Divestitures under Part II, Item 8 in this Form 10-K. 

Our exploration efforts have historically been in areas in reasonably close proximity to known proved reserves, but starting in 2012, some of our exploration projects were higher risk deepwater projects with potentially higher returns than our previous risk/reward profile. The investment associated with drilling an offshore well and future development of an offshore project principally depends upon water depth, the depth of the well, the complexity of the geological formations involved and whether the well or project can be connected to existing infrastructure or will require additional investment in infrastructure. Deepwater and deep shelf drilling projects can be substantially more capital intensive than those on the conventional shelf and onshore. Certain risks are inherent in our business specifically and in the oil and natural gas industry generally, any one of which can negatively impact our rate of return on shareholders&#8217; equity if it occurs. When projects are extremely capital intensive and involve substantial risk, we often seek participants to share the risk. We completed five, six, and five offshore wells (gross) and five, 33, and 40 onshore wells (gross) in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

We generally sell our crude oil, NGLs and natural gas at the wellhead at current market prices or transport our production to &#8220;pooling points&#8221; where it is sold. We are required to pay gathering and transportation costs with respect to a majority of our products. Our products are marketed several different ways depending upon a number of factors including the availability of purchasers at the wellhead, the availability and cost of pipelines near the well or related production platforms, the availability of third-party processing capacity, market prices, pipeline constraints and operational flexibility. 

&#160;

Due to the continued deterioration of commodity prices and the outlook for the remainder of 2016, we have set our 2016 capital expenditure budget at $15 million. This is a significant reduction from our 2015 and 2014 incurred capital expenditures of $231 million and $630 million, respectively. We have the flexibility to make this reduction to our 2016 capital expenditure budget because we have no long term rig commitments and no pressure from partners to drill or complete a well. Moreover, we expect our deepwater projects completed in 2015, combined with new production from our Ewing Bank 910 A-8 well will help with 2016 production levels. However, unplanned downtime, pipeline maintenance, and well performance are factors leading to lower estimated production in 2016 from 2015. We do not expect to lose drilling opportunities at this spending level and have no significant lease expiration issues in 2016. In addition, our plans include spending $84 million in 2016 for ARO, which is an increase from $33 million spent on ARO in 2015. We continue to closely monitor current and forecasted prices to assess if changes are needed to our plans. See Risk Factors under Part I, Item 1A in this Form 10-K for additional information. 

Business Strategy 

Our business strategy is to acquire, explore and develop oil and natural gas reserves on the Outer Continental Shelf (&#8220;OCS&#8221;), the area of our historical success and technical expertise, which we believe has yielded desirable rates of return commensurate with our perception of risks. The rapid and extended decline in crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices that commenced in the second half of 2014 has created a great deal of uncertainty about future exploration and development. We believe this uncertainty will continue until such time as commodity prices recover, at least partially from current levels, and show signs of stability, coupled with alignment of the costs of goods and services utilized in exploration and production with prevailing commodity prices. We believe attractive acquisition opportunities will continue to become available in the Gulf of Mexico as the major integrated oil companies and other large independent oil and gas exploration and production companies continue to divest properties to focus on larger and more capital-intensive projects that better match their long-term strategic goals. Also, we expect opportunities will arise as producers seek to divest their properties for short-term cash flow needs. Our short-term focus is on conserving capital and maintaining liquidity, which may cause us to forgo these acquisition opportunities. 

Our business strategy may need to be significantly altered to comply with supplementary bonding and other regulatory hurdles, which may have a material adverse impact our liquidity. See Risk Factors under Part I, Item 1A and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data &#8211; Note 20 &#8211; Subsequent Events under Part II, Item 8 in this Form 10-K for additional information on this significant risk to our business and recent events. 

We believe a portion of our Gulf of Mexico acreage has exploration potential below currently producing zones, including deep shelf reserves at subsurface depths greater than 15,000 feet. Although the cost to drill deep shelf wells is significantly higher than shallower wells, the reserve targets are typically larger, and the use of existing infrastructure, when available, can increase the economic potential of these wells. Pursuit of acquisition opportunities in the Gulf of Mexico will be dependent on a number of factors, including commodity prices, access to capital markets, supplemental bonding requirements, other regulatory challenges, possible debt covenant restrictions, ARO and other cash needs of the business. We plan to continue to evaluate opportunities to be prepared once conditions improve. 

Competition 

The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. We currently operate in the Gulf of Mexico and compete for the acquisition of oil and natural gas properties primarily on the basis of price for such properties. We compete with numerous entities, including major domestic and foreign oil companies, other independent oil and natural gas concerns and individual producers and operators. Many of these competitors are large, well established companies that have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. Our ability to acquire additional oil and natural gas properties and to discover reserves in the future will depend upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment and to finance acquisitions without compromising our available liquidity. For a more thorough discussion of how competition could impact our ability to successfully complete our business strategy, see Risk Factors under Part I, Item 1A in this Form 10-K . 

&#160;

Oil and Natural Gas Marketing and Delivery Commitments 

We sell our crude oil, NGLs and natural gas to third-party customers. We are not dependent upon, or contractually limited to, any one customer or small group of customers. However, in 2015, approximately 50% of our sales were to Shell Trading (US) Co. and 14% to J. P. Morgan, with no other customer comprising greater than 10% of our sales. Due to the free trading nature of oil and natural gas markets in the Gulf of Mexico, we do not believe the loss of a single customer or a few customers would materially affect our ability to sell our production. For our non-operated interests in the Mississippi Canyon 782 field (Dantzler) and the Mississippi Canyon 698 field (Big Bend), we are parties to contracts that obligate the delivery of certain minimum quantities to pipeline operators, but we have the unilateral right to adjust these minimum quantities at least semi-annually. We do not have any other agreements which obligate us to deliver material quantities to third parties. 

Regulation 

General. Various aspects of our oil and natural gas operations are subject to extensive and continually changing regulation as legislation affecting the oil and natural gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion. Numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue, and have issued, rules and regulations binding upon the oil and natural gas industry and its individual members. The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (&#8220;BOEM&#8221;) and the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (&#8220;BSEE&#8221;) regulations, pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (&#8220;OCSLA&#8221;), apply to our operations on Federal leases in the Gulf of Mexico. 

The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (&#8220;FERC&#8221;) regulates the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (&#8220;NGA&#8221;) and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (&#8220;NGPA&#8221;). In 1989, however, Congress enacted the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act, which removed all remaining price and nonprice controls affecting wellhead sales of natural gas, effective January 1, 1993. While sales by producers of natural gas and all sales of crude oil, condensate and NGLs can currently be made at uncontrolled market prices, Congress could reenact price controls in the future. 

The Federal Trade Commission, the FERC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (&#8220;CFTC&#8221;) hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets. These agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. With regard to our physical sales of crude oil or other energy commodities, and any related hedging activities that we undertake, we are required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. 

These departments and agencies have authority to grant and suspend operations, and have authority to levy substantial penalties for non-compliance. Failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See Risk Factors under Part I, Item 1A in this Form 10-K for certain risks related to these and other regulations . 

Federal leases . Most of our offshore operations are conducted on federal oil and natural gas leases. These leases are awarded based on competitive bidding and contain relatively standardized terms. These leases require compliance with detailed BOEM, BSEE, and other government agency regulations and orders that are subject to interpretation and change. Included in the BOEM and BSEE regulations are regulations governing the plugging and abandonment of wells located offshore and, following cessation of operations, the removal or appropriate abandonment of all production facilities, structures and pipelines on the OCS (collectively, these activities are referred to as &#8220;decommissioning&#8221;).

Decommissioning and supplemental bonding requirements . The BOEM requires that lessees demonstrate financial strength and reliability according to regulations, or post supplemental bonds or other acceptable assurances that such obligations will be satisfied. Under BOEM&#8217;s Notice To Lessees #2008-N07, Supplemental Bond Procedures (&#8220;NTL #2008-N07&#8221;), the BOEM will waive its supplemental bonding requirements when a lessee or its guarantor meets the conditions contained in the NTL #2008-N07 that demonstrates financial strength and reliability. One of the requirements of NTL #2008-N07 requires that the estimated cumulative decommissioning liability must be less than or equal to 50% of the lessee&#8217;s most recent independently audited calculation of net worth. The significant reductions in crude oil and natural gas pricing since the middle of 2014 have adversely impacted the Company&#8217;s financial strength and have resulted in the Company no longer meeting the relevant financial strength and reliability 

&#160;

criteria set forth in the NTL #2008-N07. As a result, the BOEM is now demanding financial assurances to ensure our obligations will be satisfied. We have had discussions with the BOEM and surety bond providers as to the amount, terms, availability, cost and collateral requirements related to securing additional surety bonds. See Risk Factors under Part I, Item 1A and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data under Part II, Item 8 in this Form 10-K for more discussion on decommissioning and financial assurance requirements. 

In September 2015, the BOEM issued proposed guidance describing revised supplemental bonding procedures related to obligations for decommissioning activities on the federal OCS. If the proposed guidance is finalized as written, the regulations related to the NTL #2008-N07&#8217;s &#8220;waiver exemption&#8221; and amount of self-insurance allowed will change. Among other things, the proposed guidance would eliminate the &#8220;waiver exemption&#8221; currently allowed by the BOEM, whereby lessees on the OCS meeting certain financial strength and reliability criteria are exempted from posting bonds or other acceptable financial assurances for such lessee&#8217;s decommissioning obligations. Under the proposed guidance, qualifying operators would only be able to self-insure for an amount that is no more than 10% of their tangible net worth. In addition, the proposed guidance would implement a phase-in period for establishing compliance with supplemental bonding obligations, whereby lessees may seek compliance with its supplemental bonding requirements under a &#8220;tailored plan&#8221; that is approved by the BOEM and would require securing the supplemental bonding amount in three approximately equal installments during a one-year period from the date of the BOEM approval of the tailored plan. During December 2015, the BSEE issued a final rule requiring lessees to submit summaries of actual expenditures for decommissioning of wells, platforms, and other facilities required under the BSEE&#8217;s existing regulations. The BSEE has reported that it will use this summary information to better estimate future decommissioning costs, and the BOEM may use the BSEE&#8217;s estimates to set the amount of required bonds or other forms of financial security in order to minimize the government&#8217;s risk of potential decommissioning liability. See Risk Factors under Part I, Item 1A in this Form 10-K for more discussion on decommissioning and supplemental bonding requirements. 

Regulation and transportation of natural gas. Our sales of natural gas are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The price and terms for access to pipeline transportation are subject to extensive regulation. In recent years, the FERC has undertaken various initiatives to increase competition within the natural gas industry. As a result of initiatives like FERC Order No. 636, issued in April 1992, the interstate natural gas transportation and marketing system has been substantially restructured to remove various barriers and practices that historically limited non-pipeline natural gas sellers, including producers, from effectively competing with interstate pipelines for sales to local distribution companies and large industrial and commercial customers. The most significant provisions of Order No. 636 require that interstate pipelines provide firm and interruptible transportation service on an open access basis that is equal for all natural gas supplies. In many instances, the results of Order No. 636 and related initiatives have been to substantially reduce or eliminate the interstate pipelines&#8217; traditional role as wholesalers of natural gas in favor of providing only storage and transportation services. The rates for such storage and transportation services are subject to FERC ratemaking authority, and FERC exercises its authority either by applying cost-of-service principles or granting market based rates. 

Similarly, the natural gas pipeline industry may also be subject to state regulations which may change from time to time. During the 2007 legislative session, the Texas State Legislature passed H.B. 3273 (&#8220;Competition Bill&#8221;) and H.B. 1920 (&#8220;LUG Bill&#8221;). The Competition Bill gives the Railroad Commission of Texas (&#8220;RRC&#8221;) the ability to use either a cost-of-service method or a market-based method for setting rates for natural gas gathering and intrastate transportation pipelines in formal rate proceedings. It also gives the RRC specific authority to enforce its statutory duty to prevent discrimination in natural gas gathering and transportation, to enforce the requirement that parties participate in an informal complaint process and to punish purchasers, transporters, and gatherers for taking discriminatory actions against shippers and sellers. The Competition Bill also provides producers with the unilateral option to determine whether or not confidentiality provisions are included in a contract to which a producer is a party for the sale, transportation, or gathering of natural gas. The LUG Bill modifies the informal complaint process at the RRC with procedures unique to lost and unaccounted for gas issues. It extends the types of information that can be requested, provides producers with an annual audit right, and provides the RRC with the authority to make determinations and issue orders in specific situations. Both the Competition Bill and the LUG Bill became effective September 1, 2007. The RRC was subject to a sunset review during 2013 and was authorized to operate for an additional four years. Its next scheduled sunset review is in 2017.

&#160;

The OCSLA, which is administered by the BOEM and the FERC, requires that all pipelines operating on or across the OCS provide open access, non-discriminatory transportation service. One of the FERC&#8217;s principal goals in carrying out OCSLA&#8217;s mandate is to increase transparency in the market to provide producers and shippers working in the OCS with greater assurance of open access service on pipelines located on the OCS and non-discriminatory rates and conditions of service on such pipelines. The BOEM issued a final rule, effective August 2008 that implements a hotline, alternative dispute resolution procedures, and complaint procedures for resolving claims of having been denied open and nondiscriminatory access to pipelines on the OCS. 

In December 2007, the FERC issued rules (&#8220;Order 704&#8221;) requiring that any market participant, including a producer such as us, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of natural gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million British thermal units (&#8220;MMBtu&#8221;) during a calendar year must annually report, starting May 2009, such sales and purchases to the FERC to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to, or may contribute to the formation of price indices. It is the responsibility of the reporting entity to determine which individual transactions should be reported based on the guidance of Order 704. Order 704 also requires market participants to indicate whether they report prices to any index publishers, and if so, whether their reporting complies with FERC&#8217;s policy statement on price reporting. These rules are intended to increase the transparency of the wholesale natural gas markets and to assist the FERC in monitoring such markets and in detecting market manipulation. 

Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are pending before Congress, the FERC, state legislatures, state commissions and the courts. The natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated. As a result, there is no assurance that the less stringent regulatory approach pursued by the FERC, Congress and the states will continue. 

While these federal and state regulations for the most part affect us only indirectly, they are intended to enhance competition in natural gas markets. We cannot predict what further action the FERC, the BOEM or state regulators will take on these matters; however, we do not believe that any such action taken will affect us differently, in any material way, than other natural gas producers with which we compete. 

Oil and NGLs transportation rates . Our sales of crude oil, condensate and NGLs are not currently regulated and are transacted at market prices. In a number of instances, however, the ability to transport and sell such products is dependent on pipelines whose rates, terms and conditions of service are subject to FERC jurisdiction under the Interstate Commerce Act. The price we receive from the sale of crude oil and NGLs is affected by the cost of transporting those products to market. Interstate transportation rates for crude oil, NGLs and other products are regulated by the FERC. In general, interstate crude oil, condensate and NGL pipeline rates must be cost-based, although settlement rates agreed to by all shippers are permitted and market based rates may be permitted in certain circumstances. The FERC has established an indexing system for such transportation, which generally allows such pipelines to take an annual inflation-based rate increase. 

In other instances, the ability to transport and sell such products is dependent on pipelines whose rates, terms and conditions of service are subject to regulation by state regulatory bodies under state statutes and regulations. As it relates to intrastate crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids pipelines, state regulation is generally less rigorous than the federal regulation of interstate pipelines. State agencies have generally not investigated or challenged existing or proposed rates in the absence of shipper complaints or protests, which are infrequent and are usually resolved informally. 

We do not believe that the regulatory decisions or activities relating to interstate or intrastate crude oil, condensate or natural gas liquids pipelines will affect us in a way that materially differs from the way they affect other crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids producers or marketers. 

Regulation of oil and natural gas exploration and production. Our exploration and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Such regulations include requiring permits, bonds and pollution liability insurance for the drilling of wells, regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling, casing, operating, plugging and abandoning wells, and governing the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled. Many states also have statutes or regulations addressing conservation of oil and gas resources, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties, the establishment of maximum rates of production from oil and natural gas wells and the regulation of spacing of such wells. 

&#160;

Hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico can have a significant impact on oil and gas operations on the OCS. The effects from past hurricanes have included structural damage to fixed production facilities, semi-submersibles and jack-up drilling rigs. The BOEM and the BSEE continue to be concerned about the loss of these facilities and rigs as well as the potential for catastrophic damage to key infrastructure and the resultant pollution from future storms. In an effort to reduce the potential for future damage, the BOEM and the BSEE have periodically issued guidance aimed at improving platform survivability by taking into account environmental and oceanic conditions in the design of platforms and related structures. 

Environmental Regulations 

General. We are subject to complex and stringent federal, state and local environmental laws. These laws, among other things, govern the issuance of permits to conduct exploration, drilling and producing operations, the amounts and types of materials that may be released into the environment, the discharge and disposal of waste materials, the remediation of contaminated sites and the reclamation and abandonment of wells, sites and facilities. Numerous governmental departments issue rules and regulations to implement and enforce such laws, which are often difficult and costly to comply with and which carry substantial civil and even criminal penalties for failure to comply. Some laws, rules and regulations relating to protection of the environment may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for environmental contamination, rendering a person liable for environmental damages and cleanup costs without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such person. Other laws, rules and regulations may restrict the rate of oil and natural gas production below the rate that would otherwise exist or even prohibit exploration and production activities in sensitive areas. In addition, state laws often require various forms of remedial action to prevent and address pollution, such as the closure of inactive oil and gas waste pits and the plugging of abandoned wells. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases our cost of doing business and consequently affects our profitability. The remediation, reclamation and abandonment of wells, platforms and other facilities in the Gulf of Mexico may require us to incur significant costs. These costs are considered a normal, recurring cost of our on-going operations. Our domestic competitors are generally subject to the same laws and regulations. 

Hazardous Substances and Wastes. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (&#8220;CERCLA&#8221;) imposes liability, without regard to fault, on certain classes of persons that are considered to be responsible for the release of a &#8220;hazardous substance&#8221; into the environment. These persons include the current or former owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances. Under CERCLA, such persons are subject to joint and several liability for the cost of investigating and cleaning up hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the cost of certain health studies. 

The Federal Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (&#8220;RCRA&#8221;), regulates the generation, transportation, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous wastes and can require cleanup of hazardous waste disposal sites. RCRA currently excludes drilling fluids, produced waters and certain other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of oil and natural gas from regulation as &#8220;hazardous waste.&#8221; Disposal of such non-hazardous oil and natural gas exploration, development and production wastes is usually regulated by state law. Other wastes handled at exploration and production sites or generated in the course of providing well services may not fall within this exclusion. Moreover, stricter standards for waste handling and disposal may be imposed on the oil and natural gas industry in the future. From time to time, various environmental groups have challenged the Environmental Protection Agency&#8217;s (&#8220;EPA&#8221;) exemption of certain oil and gas wastes from RCRA, and legislation is frequently proposed in Congress that would revoke or alter the current exclusion of exploration, development and production wastes from the RCRA definition of &#8220;hazardous wastes,&#8221; either of which could potentially subject such wastes to more stringent handling, disposal and cleanup requirements. Additionally, Naturally Occurring Radioactive Materials (&#8220;NORM&#8221;) may contaminate minerals extraction and processing equipment used in the oil and natural gas industry. The waste resulting from such contamination is regulated by federal and state laws. Standards have been developed for: worker protection; treatment, storage, and disposal of NORM and NORM waste; management of NORM-contaminated waste piles, containers and tanks; and limitations on the relinquishment of NORM contaminated land for unrestricted use under RCRA and state laws. We do not anticipate any material expenditures in connection with our compliance with RCRA and applicable state laws related to NORM waste. 

Air Emissions and Climate Change . Air emissions from our operations are subject to the Federal Clean Air Act (&#8220;CAA&#8221;) and comparable state and local requirements. We may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the future for air pollution control equipment in connection with obtaining and maintaining operating permits and approvals for air emissions. In addition, the EPA has developed, and continues to develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. 

&#160;

Moreover, the U.S. Congress and the EPA, in addition to some state and regional efforts, have in recent years considered legislation or regulations to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. These efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes, and greenhouse gas monitoring and reporting programs. In the absence of federal greenhouse gas limitations, the EPA has determined that greenhouse gas emissions present a danger to public health and the environment, and it has adopted regulations that, among other things, restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the CAA and may require the installation of control technologies to limit emissions of greenhouse gases. These regulations would apply to any new or significantly modified facilities that we construct in the future that would otherwise emit large volumes of greenhouse gases together with other criteria pollutants. Also, certain of our operations are subject to EPA rules requiring the monitoring and annual reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified offshore production sources. See Risk Factors under Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K for further discussion. 

Water Discharges . The primary federal law for oil spill liability is the Oil Pollution Act (the &#8220;OPA&#8221;) which amends and augments oil spill provisions of the federal Water Pollution Control Act (the &#8220;Clean Water Act&#8221;). OPA imposes certain duties and liabilities on &#8220;responsible parties&#8221; related to the prevention of oil spills and damages resulting from such spills in or threatening United States waters, including the OCS or adjoining shorelines. A liable &#8220;responsible party&#8221; includes the owner or operator of an onshore facility, vessel or pipeline that is a source of an oil discharge or that poses the substantial threat of discharge or, in the case of offshore facilities, the lessee or permittee of the area in which a discharging facility is located. OPA assigns joint and several, strict liability, without regard to fault, to each liable party for all containment and oil removal costs and a variety of public and private damages including, but not limited to, the costs of responding to a release of oil and natural resource damages and economic damages suffered by persons adversely affected by an oil spill. Although defenses exist to the liability imposed by OPA, they are limited. In addition, the BOEM has finalized rules that raise OPA&#8217;s damages liability cap from $75 million to $134 million. OPA requires owners and operators of offshore oil production facilities to establish and maintain evidence of financial responsibility to cover costs that could be incurred in responding to an oil spill, and to prepare and submit for approval oil spill response plans. These oil spill response plans must detail the action to be taken in the event of a spill; identify contracted spill response equipment, materials, and trained personnel; and identify the time necessary to deploy these resources in the event of a spill. In addition, OPA currently requires a minimum financial responsibility demonstration of between $35 million and $150 million for companies operating on the OCS. We are currently required to demonstrate, on an annual basis, that we have ready access to $150 million that can be used to respond to an oil spill from our facilities on the OCS. As a result of the BP Deepwater Horizon incident, legislation has been proposed in Congress to increase the minimum level of financial responsibility to $300 million or more. 

The Clean Water Act and comparable state laws impose restrictions and strict controls regarding the monitoring and discharge of pollutants, including produced waters and other natural gas wastes, into federal and state waters. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the EPA or the state. The EPA has also adopted regulations requiring certain onshore oil and natural gas exploration and production facilities to obtain individual permits or coverage under general permits for storm water discharges. Costs may be associated with the treatment of wastewater or developing and implementing storm water pollution prevention plans, as well as for monitoring and sampling the storm water runoff from certain of our onshore facilities. Obtaining permits has the potential to delay the development of oil and natural gas projects. These same regulatory programs also limit the total volume of water that can be discharged, hence limiting the rate of development, and require us to incur compliance costs. Pursuant to these laws and regulations, we may be required to obtain and maintain approvals or permits for the discharge of wastewater or storm water and are required to develop and implement spill prevention, control and countermeasure plans, also referred to as &#8220;SPCC plans,&#8221; in connection with on-site storage of significant quantities of oil. We currently maintain all required discharge permits necessary to conduct our operations, and historically, our environmental compliance costs have not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations. However, there can be no assurance that such costs will not be material in the future.

Protected and Endangered Species . Executive Order 13158, issued in May 2000, directs federal agencies to safeguard existing Marine Protected Areas (&#8220;MPAs&#8221;) in the United States and establish new MPAs. The order requires federal agencies to avoid harm to MPAs to the extent permitted by law and to the maximum extent practicable. It also directs the EPA to propose new regulations under the Clean Water Act to ensure appropriate levels of protection for the marine environment. This order has the potential to adversely affect our operations by restricting areas in which we may carry out future development and exploration projects and/or causing us to incur increased operating expenses. 

&#160;

Federal Lease Stipulations include regulations regarding the taking of protected marine species (sea turtles, marine mammals, Gulf sturgeon and other listed marine species). Historically, our compliance costs for the protection of marine species have not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations; however, there can be no assurance that such costs will not be material in the future. 

Certain flora and fauna that have been officially classified as &#8220;threatened&#8221; or &#8220;endangered&#8221; are protected by the Endangered Species Act (&#8220;ESA&#8221;). This law prohibits any activities that could &#8220;take&#8221; a protected plant or animal or reduce or degrade its habitat area. We conduct operations on leases in areas where certain species that are listed as threatened or endangered are known to exist and where other species that potentially could be listed as threatened or endangered under the ESA may exist. We own a platform in the Gulf of Mexico located in a National Marine Sanctuary. As a result, we are subject to additional federal regulation, including regulations issued by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Unique regulations related to operations in a sanctuary include prohibition of drilling activities within certain protected areas, restrictions on the types of water and other substances that may be discharged, required depths of discharge in connection with drilling and production activities and limitations on mooring of vessels. 

Other statutes that provide protection to animal and plant species and which may apply to our operations include, but are not necessarily limited to, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Coastal Zone Management Act, the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act, the Marine Mammal Protection Act, the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act, the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act and the National Historic Preservation Act. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit or other authorization before construction or drilling commences and may limit or prohibit construction, drilling and other activities on certain lands lying within wilderness or wetlands. These and other protected areas may require certain mitigation measures to avoid harm to wildlife, and such laws and regulations may impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. The permits required for our various operations are subject to revocation, modification and renewal by issuing authorities. 

Financial Information

We operate our business as a single segment. See Selected Financial Data under Part II, Item 6 and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data under Part II, Item 8 in this Form 10-K for our financial information.

Seasonality 

For a discussion of seasonal changes that affect our business, see Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#8211; Inflation and Seasonality under Part II, Item 7 in this Form 10-K . 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed 297 people. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements and we have not experienced any strikes or work stoppages. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. 

Additional Information 

We file Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other reports with the SEC. Our reports filed with the SEC are available free of charge to the general public through our website at www.wtoffshore.com. These reports are accessible on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after being filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. This Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings can also be obtained by contacting: Investor Relations, W&#38;T Offshore, Inc., Nine Greenway Plaza, Suite 300, Houston, Texas 77046 or by calling (713) 297-8024. These reports are also available at the SEC Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Information on our website is not a part of this Form 10-K. 

&#160;

