 ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS. 

THE COMPANY 

Uranium Resources, Inc. is a uranium exploration, development and production company. We were organized in 1977 to acquire and develop uranium projects in South Texas using the ISR process. Following our acquisition of Anatolia Energy Limited (&#147;Anatolia Energy&#148;), we are focused on advancing to near-term production the Temrezli ISR project in Turkey. URI also controls extensive exploration properties under nine exploration and operating licenses covering approximately 32,000 acres with numerous exploration targets, including the potential satellite Sefaatli project, which is 30 miles southwest of the Temrezli project. We have historically produced uranium by ISR methods in the state of Texas where we currently have ISR projects and two licensed processing facilities. We also have approximately 190,000 acres of mineral holdings in the prolific Grants Mineral Belt of the State of New Mexico, a portion of which we have entered into a binding letter of intent to sell, and 14,000 acres in the South Texas uranium province. URI acquired these properties over the past 25 years along with an extensive information database of historic drill-hole logs and analysis. None of URI&#146;s properties are currently in production. As of March 18, 2016 we had 40 employees.

OUR STRATEGY 

Our vision is to become a leading uranium developer and producer. Our strategy is to build value for stockholders by advancing our projects towards production when uranium markets improve, while prudently managing our cash and liquidity position for financial flexibility. In Turkey, our focus is on advancing to near-term production the Temrezli project with construction for the project anticipated to begin in 2017, subject to the receipt of permits, land access and project financing. In Texas, our focus is to add quality mineral resources for our licensed Kingsville Dome ISR processing facility by means of advancing our projects in South Texas with drilling, value accretive acquisitions, operating/processing agreements and/or the evaluation of exploration prospects. In New Mexico, we continue to assess the potential for the development of our larger scale projects on a standalone basis or with partners. At any time we may have acquisition or partnering opportunities in various stages of active review, including, for example, our engagement of consultants and advisors to analyze particular opportunities, analysis of technical, financial and other confidential information, submission of indications of interest, participation in preliminary discussions and negotiations and involvement as a bidder in competitive processes.

We expect to complete an updated pre-feasibility study on the Temrezli project in the fourth quarter of 2016. This will enable us to finalize and submit permit applications at that time. Because much of the permitting process runs in parallel with our technical work, we can expect permit approvals mid-year 2017. 

Our pipeline of projects is prioritized as near-term, mid-term and long-term projects with a goal of achieving sustainable production over time. Amidst the prevailing low uranium price environment, we continue to balance cash conservation with maintaining readiness to fast track resumption of production at such time as uranium prices show sufficient improvement. We continually adjust near-term and long-term business priorities in accordance with market conditions. 

RECENT CORPORATE DEVELOPMENTS 

Reverse Stock Split 

On March 7, 2016, following the close of trading, URI affected a one-for-twelve reverse split of its common shares. The consolidated common shares began trading on a split-adjusted basis as of March 8, 2016. On February 11, 2016, at a special meeting of stockholders, URI received approval for a charter amendment permitting URI to affect a reverse split. The primary purpose of the reverse split was to bring URI into compliance with the Nasdaq&#146;s $1.00 minimum bid price requirement to maintain URI&#146;s stock listing on Nasdaq.

The reverse split reduced the number of URI&#146;s outstanding common stock from 61,820,734 shares to 5,151,692 shares of common stock. In addition, effective upon the reverse stock split, the number of authorized shares of URI&#146;s common stock was reduced from 200 million to 100 million. No fractional shares were issued as a result of the reverse stock split. Any fractional shares that would have resulted will be settled in cash.

All share data herein has been retroactively adjusted for the reverse stock split.

Option Agreement with Aspire Capital 

On February 3, 2016, URI and Aspire Capital entered into an option agreement by which Aspire Capital granted to URI the right at any time or times prior to April 30, 2017 to require Aspire Capital to enter into up to two common stock purchase agreements, each having a term of up to 24 months and collectively requiring Aspire Capital to purchase up to $10 million in the aggregate of URI&#146;s common stock (or such lesser amount as URI may determine) on an ongoing basis when required by URI. As consideration for Aspire Capital entering into the option agreement, URI issued 75,000 shares of its common stock to Aspire Capital.

Registered Direct Offerings 

On February 4, 2016, URI completed a registered direct offering for gross proceeds of $838,000. Net proceeds to URI, after deducting offering expenses, were approximately $0.8 million. URI sold 296,667 shares of common stock at a price of $2.82 per share.

On December 18, 2015, URI completed a registered direct offering for gross proceeds of $1.0 million. Net proceeds to URI, after deducting agent fees and offering expenses, were $0.7 million. URI sold 208,333 shares of common stock at a price of $4.80 per share.

On March 6, 2015, URI completed a registered direct offering for gross proceeds of $6.0 million. Net proceeds to URI, after deducting agent&#146;s fees and offering expenses, were $5.4 million. URI sold 333,333 units at a price of $18.00 per unit, with each unit comprised of one share of URI&#146;s common stock and a warrant to purchase 0.55 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $24.00 per whole share. The warrants are exercisable for a period of five years beginning on the six-month anniversary of original issuance and ending on a date that five years after the first date of exercisability.

Acquisition of Anatolia Energy Limited 

On November 9, 2015, URI completed the acquisition of Anatolia Energy, an Australian public company, pursuant to the scheme implementation agreement between the parties dated June 3, 2015 (the &#147;Anatolia Transaction&#148;). Upon the closing of the Anatolia Transaction, URI issued approximately 1.7 million URI shares, 0.6 million replacement options and replacement performance shares to holders of Anatolia Energy&#146;s securities, and Anatolia Energy became a wholly-owned subsidiary of URI. Immediately after the closing of the Anatolia Transaction, the former Anatolia Energy shareholders held approximately 40% of the outstanding common stock of the combined company (or approximately 43% on a fully diluted basis), and the shares of common stock held by continuing URI shareholders represented approximately 60% of the outstanding common stock of the combined company.

Enhanced Path to Production 

We strengthened our path to production with completion of the Anatolia Transaction. We acquired the near-term Temrezli ISR project, including extensive exploration properties under nine exploration and operating licenses covering approximately 44,700 acres with numerous exploration targets, including the potential satellite Sefaatli project, which is 25 miles southwest of the Temrezli project. 

Laramide Asset Sale 

On November 9, 2015, URI entered into a letter of intent (&#147;LOI&#148;) with Laramide Resources for the sale of URI&#146;s Churchrock and Crownpoint properties in New Mexico. Under the terms of the LOI, URI and certain of its subsidiaries have agreed, subject to the execution of definitive documentation, to transfer ownership of the Churchrock and Crownpoint properties to Laramide Resources or its subsidiaries. In exchange, URI will receive from Laramide Resources at closing, cash in the amount of $5.25 million and a note receivable in the amount of $7.25 million payable in three equal installments over the next three years. Laramide Resources will also assume any liabilities related to reclamation and remediation on the subject lands. Closing of the transaction is expected to occur during the first half of 2016, subject to financing and other customary conditions, including applicable regulatory approvals.

Energy Fuels Asset Sale 

On June 28, 2015, we completed the sale of our remaining Roca Honda project assets to Energy Fuels Inc. for $2.5 million in cash, $375,000 in Energy Fuels Inc.&#146;s NYSE MKT-listed shares (amounting to 76,455 UUUU shares) plus other non-cash consideration. The transaction with Energy Fuels Inc. closed on July 31, 2015.

Reclamation progress at the Rosita project . 

We completed the plugging and abandonment phase of reclamation at our Rosita project during 2015. We are currently performing surface reclamation activities at the Rosita project and are approximately 45% complete in Production Area 1 and 55% complete in Production Area 2.

Exploration Drilling and Data Purchase 

On March 23, 2015, we reported that all five drill holes from a completed preliminary drill program at the Butler Ranch project in South Texas encountered multiple zones of anomalous to low-grade levels of uranium mineralization. In July 2015, we acquired an extensive data set containing historical mineral resource estimates as well as over 2,000 drill logs, geologic and other data for the Butler Ranch project. 

OVERVIEW OF THE URANIUM INDUSTRY 

The only significant commercial use for uranium is as a fuel for nuclear power plants for the generation of electricity. According to the World Nuclear Association (&#34;WNA&#34;), as of January 2016, there were 396 nuclear reactors operable worldwide, excluding the 43 idled reactors in Japan, with annual requirements of about 147.5 million pounds of uranium. In addition, the WNA lists 66 reactors under construction, 158 being planned and 330 being proposed.

Worldwide uranium production or primary supply in 2016 is estimated by UxC Consulting in its Q4 2015 report at 163 million pounds. This is compared with 151 million pounds of primary supply in 2015. Using estimates from WNA, estimated global uranium demand was 148 million pounds in 2015. 

Spot prices rose from $21.00 per pound in January 2005 to a high of $136.00 per pound in June 2007 in anticipation of sharply higher projected demand as a result of a resurgence in nuclear power and the depletion or unavailability of secondary supplies. The sharp price increase was driven in part by high levels of buying by utility companies, which resulted in most utilities covering their requirements through 2009. A decrease in near-term utility demand coupled with rising levels of supplies from producers and traders led to downward pressure on uranium prices since the third quarter of 2007. A rebound in uranium prices in conjunction with a recovery in commodities in 2010 was curtailed by the Fukushima disaster in Japan. 

In 2015, the average weekly spot price of uranium was $36.83 per pound compared with $35.50 in 2014 and $39.00 per pound in 2013. In 2015, the weekly spot price of uranium reached a high of $39.50 per pound in March while the low for the year was $33.75 per pound in December. The year end 2015 spot price was $34.25 per pound. As of March 14, 2016, the weekly spot price was $28.75 per pound and the long-term contract price was $44.00 per pound.

Many analysts are calling for improved uranium prices over the mid-term from a supply deficit as uranium market fundamentals for supply and demand improve. Secondary supply inventories are being drawn down. Demand for uranium is expected to improve over the mid-term from an increase of nuclear power generation in China, and to a lesser extent, India, Russia and other countries. Potential catalysts supportive of uranium prices in the near term include utility long-term contracting and gradual restarting of Japan's idled 43 reactors.

COMPETITION 

There is global competition for uranium properties, capital, customers and the employment and retention of qualified personnel. We compete with multiple exploration companies for both properties as well as skilled personnel. In the production and marketing of uranium, there are a number of producing entities globally, some of which are government controlled and several of which are significantly larger and better capitalized than we are. Several of these organizations also have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and distribution resources than we have.

Our future uranium production will also compete with uranium from secondary supplies, including the sale of uranium inventory held by the U.S. Department of Energy. In addition, there are numerous entities in the market that compete with us for properties and operate ISR facilities. If we are unable to successfully compete for properties, capital, customers or employees or with alternative uranium sources, it could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations.

With respect to sales of uranium, the Company competes primarily based on price. We will market uranium to utilities and commodity brokers. We are in direct competition with supplies available from various sources worldwide. We believe we compete with multiple operating uranium companies.

OVERVIEW OF URI PROJECTS 

Turkey 

Following the closing of the Anatolia Transaction, URI is focused on advancing to near-term production the Temrezli ISR project in Central Turkey. In Turkey, URI controls extensive exploration properties under seven exploration and operating licenses covering approximately 32,000 acres with numerous exploration targets, including the potential satellite Sefaatli Project, which is 30 miles southwest of the Temrezli project. The project area enjoys year-round accessibility via sealed roads and a number of unsealed local tracks. Sparsely populated, but with access to major infrastructure such as water and power, the area is gently undulating. The majority of the project area is owned by local families who work the land for grain production.

Temrezli Project . 

The Temrezli project is wholly owned and operated by URI. Uranium was first discovered by Turkey&#146;s Uranium Division of the Department of Energy, Raw Material and Exploration (&#147;MTA&#148;) in the early 1980s. MTA continued to explore the region for the next 10 years. Following a change to the Turkish Mining Law in 2004 the private sector has been able to explore for radioactive substances. Anatolia Energy, through its subsidiary Adur Madencilik Ltd STI, commenced exploration at the Temrezli project in 2010 and confirmed the MTA&#146;s findings. The uranium mineralization is considered to be epigenetic and related to strata controlled redox boundaries influenced by permeability changes and/or stratabound reductants such as organic material or iron sulfides.

Anatolia Energy released a preliminary feasibility study in February 2015 indicating cash operating costs of $16.89 per pound U 3 O 8 and all-in operating costs of approximately $30.17 per pound U 3 O 8 . URI has retained Roscoe Postle Associates, Inc. to update the February 2015 preliminary feasibility study, something that URI currently anticipates to have ready by the end of 2016. Included in the update to the preliminary feasibility study will be the consideration of the capital cost savings and other synergies expected to be realized through the Anatolia Transaction.

Sefaatli Project . 

The Sefaatli project area contains the district&#146;s most significant uranium occurrences outside of our Temrezli project area. The Sefaatli project is located approximately 30 miles southwest of the Temrezli project. The Sefaatli project has been strengthened by the granting of two new exploration licenses, which expire in May 2018.

Texas 

In Texas, URI has the Kingsville Dome licensed processing facility and approximately 14,000 acres of prospective ISR projects. URI plans on relocating key components of the Rosita processing facility from Texas to Turkey for use at the Temrezli project. The wellfields at Kingsville Dome and Rosita have reserves of over 600,000 pounds of in-place uranium within 400,000 tons at an average grade of approximately 0.08%. These wellfields and the Kingsville Dome facility are on standby for a restart of production when there is a sustained improvement in the uranium market.

Key operational elements of URI&#146;s plan for its Texas properties include (1) positioning URI to return to sustainable production by continuing to evaluate potential brownfield and greenfield exploration opportunities and evaluating synergistic opportunities from existing resources held by other entities; and (2) continuing to maintain reclamation activities in South Texas in accordance with URI&#146;s existing agreements and regulatory requirements.

New Mexico 

In New Mexico, URI controls minerals rights encompassing approximately 190,000 acres, a portion of which we have entered into a binding letter of intent to sell. URI holds substantial non-reserve mineralized material of over 40 million tons at an average grade of 0.15% at its properties in the prolific Grants Mineral Belt in New Mexico, which holds one of the largest known concentrations of sandstone-hosted uranium deposits in the world.

THE ISR PROCESS 

The ISR process is dramatically different from conventional mining techniques. The ISR technique avoids the movement and milling of significant quantities of rock and ore and also avoids the creation of mill tailing waste associated with more traditional mining methods. It is generally more cost-effective and environmentally sensitive than conventional mining and processing. Historically, the majority of U.S. uranium production resulted from either open pit surface mines or underground mining.

The ISR process was initially developed for the production of uranium in the mid-1960&#146;s, and was first utilized at a commercial-scale project in South Texas in 1975. It became a routinely utilized recovery method in the South Texas uranium district by the late 1970&#146;s, where it was employed in about twenty commercial projects, including two operated by us.

In the ISR process, groundwater fortified with oxygen and carbon dioxide is pumped into a permeable ore body within a wellfield, causing the uranium contained in the ore to dissolve. A wellfield consists of a series of injection wells, production (extraction) wells and monitoring wells drilled in specified patterns. Wellfield pattern is crucial to minimizing costs and maximizing efficiencies of production. The resulting solutions from the wellfields are pumped to the surface, where the uranium-bearing water is circulated through an ion exchange column, and uranium is precipitated from the fluid onto resin beads. The uranium-depleted fluid is then re-injected into the subsurface uranium deposit. When the ion exchange column&#146;s resin beads are loaded with uranium, they are removed and flushed with a salt-water solution, which liberates the uranium from the beads. This process results in uranium residing in a slurry, which is then dried and packaged for shipment as a uranium concentrate. In order to achieve greater operating efficiencies and reducing capital expenditures when developing new wellfields, we employ a wellfield- specific remote ion exchange process as opposed to a central processing plant, as we had done historically. Instead of piping the solutions over long distances through large diameter pipelines, and mixing the waters of several wellfields together, each wellfield is produced using a dedicated satellite ion exchange facility. This allows ion exchange to take place at the wellfield instead of at the central plant. The satellite facilities allow recovery of uranium from each wellfield using its own native groundwater, thus avoiding the introduction of foreign mineral complexes and the attendant complications of doing so.

ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS AND PERMITTING 

United States 

Uranium extraction is regulated by the federal government, states and, in some cases, by Indian tribes. Compliance with such regulation has a material effect on the economics of our operations and the timing of project development. Our primary regulatory costs have been related to obtaining licenses and permits from federal and state agencies before the commencement of production activities. The current environmental regulatory requirements for the ISR industry are well established. Many ISR projects have gone a full life cycle without any significant environmental impact. However, the process can make environmental permitting difficult and timing unpredictable.

U.S. regulations pertaining to climate change continue to evolve in both the U.S. and internationally. We do not anticipate any adverse impact from these regulations that would be unique to our operations.

Radioactive Material License 

Before commencing ISR operations in Texas and either ISR or conventional mining activity in New Mexico, we must obtain a radioactive material license. Under the federal Atomic Energy Act, the NRC has primary jurisdiction over the issuance of a radioactive material license. However, the Atomic Energy Act also allows for states with regulatory programs deemed satisfactory by NRC to take primary responsibility for issuing the radioactive material license. NRC has ceded jurisdiction for such licenses to Texas, but not to New Mexico. Such ceding of jurisdiction by NRC is hereinafter referred to as the &#147;granting of primacy.&#148;

The Texas Commission of Environmental Quality (&#147;TCEQ&#148;) is the administrative agency with jurisdiction in Texas over the radioactive material license. For operations in New Mexico, radioactive material licensing is handled directly by NRC.

See Item 2, &#147; Properties &#148; for the status of our radioactive material license for New Mexico and Texas.

Underground Injection Control (&#147;UIC&#148;) Permits 

The federal Safe Drinking Water Act creates a nationwide regulatory program protecting groundwater. This law is administered by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (the &#147;EPA&#148;). However, to avoid the burden of dual federal and state regulation, the Safe Drinking Water Act allows for the UIC permits issued by states to satisfy the UIC permit required under the Safe Drinking Water Act under two conditions. First, the state&#146;s program must have been granted primacy. Second, the EPA must have granted, upon request by the state, an aquifer exemption. The EPA may delay or decline to process the state&#146;s application if the EPA questions the state&#146;s jurisdiction over the ISR site.

Texas has been granted primacy for its UIC programs, and the TCEQ administers UIC permits. The TCEQ also regulates air quality and surface deposition or discharge of treated wastewater associated with the ISR process.

New Mexico has also been granted primacy for its UIC program. Properties located in Indian Country remain subject to the jurisdiction of the EPA. Some of our properties are located in areas that some alleged to be in Indian Country. The Navajo Nation has been determined eligible for treatment as a state, but it has not requested the grant of primacy from the EPA for uranium related UIC activity. Until the Navajo Nation has been granted primacy, ISR activities that may fall within Indian Country will require a UIC permit from the EPA. Despite some procedural differences, the substantive technical requirements of the Texas, New Mexico and EPA underground injection control programs are very similar.

See Item 2, &#147; Properties &#148; and Item 3, &#147; Legal Proceedings &#148; for a description of the status of our UIC permits in Texas and New Mexico.

Mining Permits 

All uranium producing states have regulations governing the development, operation and closure of conventional and in-situ recovery mines. In New Mexico, the Mining and Minerals Division of the Energy, Minerals and Natural Resources Department is responsible for issuing permits under the authority of the New Mexico Mining Act of 1978. Well established regulations specify what information is necessary to support mine permit applications and a well-defined application review process. The primary focus of the agency&#146;s review is to ensure that the proposed mine will protect the environment surrounding the mine area, comply with relevant environmental standards, and be reclaimed to a self-sustaining ecosystem or other approved post-mine land use. Application reviews require consultation with other state agencies, public notice and public hearing opportunities. In addition to mine permits, a discharge permit must be obtained from the New Mexico Environmental Department for mine facilities such as ore pads, waste rock piles and tailings impoundments.

In Texas, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) regulates uranium mining and issues the necessary license and permits. URI holds a radioactive material license which covers Kingsville Dome, Rosita and Vasquez sites. Each site has a class III injection permit also issued by the TCEQ. Rosita and Vasquez permits have both been renewed in 2014, and the Kingsville permit is in the renewal process. Within each area&#146;s permit, the TCEQ also issues production area authorizations (PAAs). Kingsville holds three PAAs, Rosita holds four, and Vasquez holds two PAAs. Each site also has class I non-hazardous injection permits for operation of waste disposal wells on site, which are regulated by the TCEQ as well. All permits for the disposal wells are active. In addition to the required state permits, the United States 

Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) regulates the underground aquifers and requires areas with uranium mineralization to have that portion of the aquifer exempted before state mining permits are issued. The aquifer exemptions for all three Texas sites have been issued.

Other 

In addition to radioactive material licenses and UIC permits, we are also required to obtain from governmental authorities a number of other permits or exemptions, such as for wastewater discharge, for land application of treated wastewater, and for air emissions.

In order for a licensee to receive final release from further radioactive material license obligations after all of its ISR and post-production reclamation have been completed, approval must be issued by the TCEQ for Texas properties along with concurrence from NRC and for properties in New Mexico by the NRC.

In addition to the costs and responsibilities associated with obtaining and maintaining permits and the regulation of production activities, we are subject to environmental laws (including but not limited to CERCLA, commonly known as Superfund) and regulations applicable to the ownership and operation of real property in general, including, but not limited to, the potential responsibility for the activities of prior owners and operators.

Reclamation and Restoration Costs and Bonding Requirements 

At the conclusion of ISR or conventional mining, a site is decommissioned and reclaimed, and each well field is restored. Restoration involves returning the aquifer to its pre-development use. Reclamation involves removing evidence of surface disturbance. Restoration can be accomplished by flushing the ore zone with native ground water and/or using reverse osmosis to remove ions, minerals and salts to provide clean water for reinjection to flush the ore zone. Decommissioning and reclamation entails dismantling and removing the structures, equipment and materials used at the site during the ISR and restoration activities.

The Company is required by the State of Texas regulatory agencies to obtain financial surety relating to certain of its future restoration and reclamation obligations. The Company has provided performance bonds issued for the benefit of the Company in the amount of $9.3 million to satisfy such regulatory requirements. The performance bonds relate primarily to our operations at our Kingsville Dome and Vasquez projects.

In February 2013, the Company secured a new source to satisfy its financial surety obligations for the Texas regulatory agencies. Previously, the Company had met its financial surety obligations through a combination of bank issued letters of credit (the &#147;LOCs&#148;) and bonds issued for the benefit of the Company. These financial surety arrangements required the Company to fully collateralize the face amount of the LOC&#146;s and the bonds with short term investment vehicles. This requirement resulted in the Company posting $9.3 million in cash that was restricted for the purpose of collateralizing these obligations. The Company&#146;s new financial surety arrangements are provided by Lexon Insurance Company (&#147;Lexon&#148;) in the form of bonds issued for the benefit of the Company. The amount of the bonds written by Lexon total approximately $9.3 million and the collateral requirements of these bonds require the Company to maintain 40% of the value of the bonds in the form of restricted cash. 

We estimate that our restoration and reclamation liabilities for prior operations at Kingsville Dome, Vasquez, Rosita and the Crownpoint Project at December 31, 2015, are about $6.4 million, with a carrying value of $4.5 million recorded as a liability on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2015.

The Company&#146;s financial surety obligations are reviewed and revised periodically by the Texas regulatory agencies. In New Mexico surety bonding will be required before commencement of uranium recovery operations and will be subject to annual review and revision by NRC and the State of New Mexico or the EPA.

Water Rights 

Water is essential to the ISR process. It is readily available in South Texas. In Texas water is subject to capture and we do not have to acquire water rights through a state administrative process. In New Mexico, water rights are administered through the New Mexico State Engineer and can be subject to Indian tribal jurisdictional claims. Also in New Mexico, new water rights or changes in purpose or place of use or points of diversion of existing water rights, such as those in the San Juan and Gallup Basins where our properties are located, must be obtained by permit from the State Engineer. Applications may be approved subject to conditions that govern exercise of the water rights.

Jurisdiction over water rights becomes an issue in New Mexico when an Indian nation, such as the Navajo Nation, objects to the State Engineer&#146;s authority and claims tribal jurisdiction over Indian Country. This issue may result in litigation between the Indian nation and the state, which may delay action on water right applications, and can require applications to the appropriate Indian nation and continuing jurisdiction by the Indian nation over use of the water. The foregoing issues have arisen in connection with certain of our New Mexico properties.

In New Mexico, we hold approved water rights to provide sufficient water to conduct ISR at the Churchrock project and Section 24 of the Crownpoint project for the projected life of these facilities. We also hold two unprotested senior water rights applications that, when approved by the New Mexico State Engineer, would provide sufficient water for future extensions of the Crownpoint project.

Republic of Turkey 

Mining Law 

The mining industry in Turkey is regulated by the Turkish Mining Law (Law No 3213), which was amended recently in February 2015 (&#147;Amended Mining Law&#148;) and regulations issued thereunder. Mining rights and minerals are exclusively owned by the state. The ownership of minerals in Turkey is not subject to the ownership of the relevant land. The governmental body with responsibility for implementing the Mining Law and issuing the license and permits is the General Directorate of Mining Affairs (&#147;Migem&#148;) under the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. The Amended Mining Law distinguishes five groups of minerals. Pursuant to this classification the royalty amount to be paid to the state differs. Uranium mining is listed under Group 4-&#231;. The three types of licenses granted for prospecting and operating mines under the laws of Turkey are an exploration license, an operation license and an operation permit. 

Turkish Atomic Energy Authority (&#147;TAEK&#148;) 

Projects that involve radioactive materials are regulated and controlled by TAEK. TAEK was established by Law No. 2690 to exercise the functions assigned to it by this law. ISR mining of uranium is included in these functions by Article 4(b). For projects to be considered as a nuclear facility and for operation, several licenses are required from TAEK. The licensing process moves parallel to the Environmental Impact Assessment (&#147;EIA&#148;) procedure. TAEK must accept a licensee as project owner in accordance with the law. Once accepted as owner, a licensee must obtain a site license, a construction license and an operation license to operate. 

Institutional Framework for Environmental Management 

The lead government agency with responsibility for environmental protection in Turkey is the Ministry of Environment and Urban Planning (&#147;MEUP&#148;). MEUP has a coordinating role in the development and enforcement of environmental policies in Turkey. MEUP is also responsible for EIA approvals for projects.

Permits Required Prior to Construction 

These permits include the Environmental Impact Assessment (MEUP), the certification as project owner of a nuclear facility (TAEK), a mine operating permit (Migem), a site license (TAEK), a construction license (TAEK), land access agreements or an expropriation decision and infrastructural permits to construct power, access road, water supply well, etc.

Environmental Impact Assessment (&#147;EIA&#148;) Permit 

The Turkish EIA permitting process can be initiated with the submission of the EIA Application Document (the &#147;AD&#148;) to MEUP. Once the submission is made, the AD is checked by MEUP for compliance with the mandatory AD format and the EIA regulation. If the AD is found suitable, then it is distributed to the EIA Review and Assessment Committee (&#147;RAC&#148;) (made up of representatives of various governmental agencies) and the date of the official Public Meeting is determined. Following MEUP&#146;s check the AD becomes public. The date and place of the hearing is then announced in at least one local and one national newspaper. Following the public hearing, the RAC members upload their comments about the project to the electronic permitting system and the mandatory Terms of Reference (&#147;ToR&#148;) for the EIA report is provided by MEUP following the payment of the EIA permitting fee by the Project owner. Once the mandatory ToR is received from MEUP, the project owner and its consultant is allowed a maximum of 18 months to complete the draft EIA report for RAC&#146;s review. 

Once a draft comprehensive EIA report is submitted to the MEUP the draft EIA report is checked by MEUP for compliance with the ToR and the EIA regulation. The report is reproduced and distributed to the RAC, and the RAC meeting date is decided. At this stage, the draft EIA report is open to written public comments. Based on the RAC&#146;s decision and consideration of the public comments, the EIA permitting process is given either a &#147;Positive&#148; or &#147;Negative&#148; decision (i.e., the impacts are found acceptable or not). The EIA permitting process is finalized by the Minister&#146;s signature.

Mine Operating Permit 

A mine operating permit must be obtained after all the permits are received prior to construction. Application will be made to Migem requesting the operating permit which is in line with the operating license. Migem will issue the permit after reviewing the application document. This permit will require an affirmative EIA certificate (or a certificate stating that an EIA is not required), land ownership permits, and the workplace opening and operation licenses. The operating permit must be obtained within three years from the effective date of the operating license. Failure to do so may result in penalties. Operational activities must be started within one year following the operating permit date. The royalties paid to the government will also be initiated by the operating permit. 

Project Owner of a Nuclear Facility 

According to TEAK, the judicial entities who intend to build and operate a nuclear installation must apply to the TAEK to be recognized as owner. After the recognition of owner, any financial or administrative change in owner&#146;s structure must be notified to TEAK in 30 days

Site License 

Once recognized as an owner, a licensee will prepare the Site Report in order to get the Site License from TAEK. Site Report is prepared in parallel to the EIA Report. However, the review and approval of the report will be done once the affirmative EIA decision is obtained from MEUP.

The Site Report is submitted to TAEK and the decision is released to the applicant by TAEK. An affirmative notification is deemed a site license. The conditions of the license are given to the applicant as an appendix to the license. Following the receipt of the site license, Licensee could proceed with the work related to site preparation, potable water supply and electricity supply, access road, and office building construction etc. 

Construction License 

The initial application will be submitted to TAEK with the Preliminary Safety Analysis Report. Following the assessment of the Preliminary Safety Analysis Report the Nuclear Safety Department prepares a limited work permit evaluation report which also includes the view of the Committee. When it is established that the protection measures are adequate and that the facility can operate without harming the safety and the health of the public, the Commission will issue the limited work permit. The limited work permit requires that the construction starts in 12 months from the date of affirmative decision, otherwise the permit is lost. This period may be extended if valid reasons are submitted to TAEK.

The comments obtained during the evaluation of the Preliminary Safety Analysis Report will be incorporated into the Final Safety Analysis Report. Once this report is accepted and finalized then, the affirmative notification is issued as the construction license

Land Access 

The project area is located in privately owned agricultural lands. These lands have to be either purchased or leased from the owners. If an agreement cannot be reached, then the Licensee can initiate the expropriation process. In addition, in order to use these lands in mining, the land use has to be changed from agriculture to mining. This procedure requires that &#147;Public Benefit Decision&#148; be obtained from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Livestock. As a part of the procedure, a site visit will be conducted by the local department of various ministries. 

Turkish Law 3213 specifies voluntary land acquisition. This is the preferred method of land acquisition. If this is demonstrated that it would not work, then Licensee can proceed with the expropriation process. Affirmative EIA decision is a prerequisite to initiate the process. The governmental body in charge of expropriation process is the Ministry for Energy and Natural Resources (&#147;ETKB&#148;), and more specifically the General Directorate for Mining Affairs (&#147;MIGEM&#148;). Application will be made to ETKB.

Infrastructural Permits 

Several permits will be required from various offices. These permits include access road permits which are obtained from the Provincial Government and the Department of Transportation, permits for the electricity transmission lines which is handled through the local electricity authority, permits for drilling and installing a water supply well which must be obtained from the State Hydraulic Works (DSI) and the domestic water treatment plant must be approved by MEUP prior to installation. 

Permits Required Prior to Operation 

During the construction period, the operational period permitting documentation and applications will be made. Prior to start the operation, the permits required include the Trial Environmental Permit, a workplace operating license, a hazardous waste storage permit and the Operating License (TAEK).

Operating License from TAEK 

At least six months before the start of commissioning of plant components and systems, the applicant, who was granted a construction license, must apply to the Authority for a commissioning permit. Following the evaluation of documents, TAEK may grant the commissioning permit.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

Our internet website address is www.uraniumresources.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge through our website under the tab &#147;Investor Relations&#148; as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. We also make available on our website copies of materials regarding our corporate governance policies and practices, including our Code of Ethics, Nominating and Governance Committee Charter, Audit Committee Charter and Compensation Committee Charter. You may read and copy any materials we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;) at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549. You may also obtain a printed copy of the foregoing materials by sending a written request to: Uranium Resources, Inc., 6950 S. Potomac Street, Suite 300, Centennial, Colorado 80112, Attention: Information Request, or by calling 303.531.0470. The information found on our internet website is not part of this or any report filed or furnished to the SEC.

