 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

XPO Logistics, Inc., a Delaware corporation together with its subsidiaries (&#8220;XPO,&#8221; the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221;), is a global transportation and logistics company that provides comprehensive supply chain solutions to more than 50,000 &#32;customers. XPO offers these solutions through its highly integrated organization that, as of December 31, 2015 , encompassed over 89,000 &#32;employees and approximately 1,451 &#32;locations in 33 &#32;countries, primarily in North America and Europe. Our customers are multinational, national, mid-size and small enterprises, and include many of the most prominent companies in the world. On a typical day we facilitate 150,000 ground shipments and manage over five billion inventory units in our contract logistics facilities. 

XPO operates on a global basis as an asset-light company, with asset-based businesses accounting for about a third of revenue and less than a quarter of free cash flow. Based on our current business mix, we estimate that our annual net capital expenditure will be approximately 3% of revenue. 

In a little more than four years, we have taken XPO from a North American business with $177 million of revenue to a top ten global transportation and logistics company. In September 2011, following the equity investment in the Company led by Bradley S. Jacobs, we put a highly skilled management team in place and began the disciplined execution of a growth strategy to acquire and integrate attractive companies and optimize all XPO operations, with the goal of creating dramatic, long-term value for our customers and shareholders. 

We offer customers a compelling range of transportation and logistics solutions: 

&#8226; 

Freight Brokerage: the second largest freight brokerage firm in North America based on net revenue; the third largest provider of door-to-door intermodal rail services in North America, with one of the largest U.S. drayage networks, and a leader in cross-border Mexico intermodal; 

&#8226; 

Last Mile: the largest provider of home delivery and installation logistics for heavy goods in North America, and a leading last mile provider to the e-commerce industry; 

&#8226; 

Supply Chain: the second largest global provider of contract logistics based on square footage, with one of the largest e-fulfillment platforms in Europe; 

&#8226; 

Expedite: the largest manager of time-critical and high-value expedite shipments in North America via ground transportation, air charter and web-based managed transportation services; 

&#8226; 

Less-Than-Truckload (&#8220;LTL&#8221;): the second largest provider of LTL services in North America and a leading provider of LTL services in Western Europe. As of December 31, 2015 , the Company&#8217;s LTL service in North America had some of the highest service levels in the industry for on-time performance, offered more next-day and two-day lanes than any other LTL carrier, and covered 99% of U.S. postal codes; 

&#8226; 

Full Truckload: a top 20 U.S. carrier and a leading cross-border Mexico ground transportation provider; 

&#8226; 

Managed Transportation: a top five global service provider based on the value of XPO&#8217;s freight under management, which was approximately $2.7 billion as of December 31, 2015 ; and 

&#8226; 

Global Forwarding: a growing provider of global forwarding services. 

We believe that our ability to provide customers with end-to-end supply chain solutions gives us a competitive advantage. Many customers, particularly large companies, are increasingly turning to multi-modal providers to handle their supply chain requirements. We have built XPO to capitalize on this trend, as well as the trends toward outsourcing in transportation and logistics, the growth in e-commerce, the adoption of just-in-time inventory practices, and the near-shoring of manufacturing in Mexico. 

We have two reportable business segments: Transportation and Logistics. Within each segment, we have built robust service offerings that meet fast-growing areas of customer demand. Substantially all of our businesses operate under the single brand of XPO Logistics. We provide financial information for our segments and geographic information in &#32; Note 20 &#32; &#8212;Segment Reporting and Geographic Information &#32; to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Transportation 

In our Transportation segment, we provide freight brokerage, last mile, expedite, intermodal, LTL, full truckload, and global forwarding services. Freight brokerage, last mile, expedite and global forwarding are all non-asset or asset-light businesses. 

LTL and full truckload are asset-based. Our leased and owned transportation assets as of December 31, 2015 , globally, include 19,000 &#32;tractors, 47,000 &#32;trailers, 10,000 &#32;intermodal containers and 9,000 &#32;container chassis. We also have 448 &#32;cross-dock terminals worldwide. These assets benefit our company and our customers, especially during periods of tight capacity. 

We utilize an &#8220;asset right&#8221; blended transportation model of brokered, owned and contracted capacity to serve customers consistently in all market conditions and further differentiate our value proposition. Globally, as of December 31, 2015 , in addition to our owned assets, our transportation model included truck procurement hubs that manage relationships with more than 10,000 &#32;owner operator trucks under contract for last mile, expedite and drayage services, as well as approximately 50,000 &#32;additional independent carriers utilized mostly by our freight brokerage business. The North American component of this network, as of year-end 2015, included relationships with approximately 7,000 &#32;owner operator trucks, and an additional 38,000 &#32;independent carriers representing approximately 1,000,000 &#32;trucks on the road. 

XPO holds leading positions in many transportation sectors in North America and Europe. In North America, as of December 31, 2015 , we were the leader in both last mile logistics for heavy goods and expedite shipment management, and we were among the largest providers of freight brokerage (including truck brokerage and intermodal rail and drayage services) and LTL transportation. In Western Europe, as of December 31, 2015 , we were a leading LTL provider and had a growing brokerage business. The Company typically manages all aspects of the services offered, including selecting qualified carriers or vessels - or, in the case of full truckload and LTL, providing capacity - negotiating rates, tracking shipments, billing and resolving disputes. The Company accomplishes this by using its proprietary transportation management technology, third-party carriers and Company-owned trucks. 

The Company&#8217;s transportation segment encompasses seven services: 

Freight Brokerage 

The Company&#8217;s freight brokerage business encompasses operations for truck brokerage and, in North America, intermodal and drayage services. Our truck brokerage operations are non-asset-based: we place shippers&#8217; freight with qualified carriers, primarily trucking companies. Customers offer loads to us via telephone, fax, email, electronic data interchange and the Internet on a daily basis. These services are priced on either a spot market or contract basis for shippers. We collect payments from our customers and pay the carriers on a spot market basis for transporting customer loads. 

We are the third largest provider of intermodal services in North America, and a leading provider of intermodal services in the fast-growing cross-border Mexico sector. Our intermodal operations are asset-light; we provide container capacity - some of which utilizes our 10,000 &#32;leased or owned 53-ft. containers and 9,000 &#32;chassis - rail brokerage, drayage transportation via independent contractors, and on-site operational services. We contract with railroads to provide the long-haul portion of the shipment of freight in containers, and we contract with trucking companies for the local pick-up and delivery legs of the intermodal freight movement. We also provide customized electronic tracking and analysis of market prices and negotiated rail, truck and intermodal rates, in order to determine the optimal transportation routes. We offer our door-to-door intermodal services to a wide range of customers in North America, including large industrial and retail shippers, transportation intermediaries such as intermodal marketing companies, and steamship lines. 

In June 2015, we expanded our drayage operations through the acquisition of Bridge Terminal Transport, Inc. (&#8220;BTT&#8221;), one of the largest asset-light drayage providers in the U.S. For additional information on the BTT acquisition and other prior acquisitions, see Note 3 &#8212;Acquisitions , of Item 8, &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.&#8221; 

Last Mile Logistics 

The Company is the largest provider of last mile logistics for heavy goods in North America. Our last mile services are asset-light and utilize independent contractors. Last mile delivery comprises the final stage of the delivery from a local distribution center or retail store to the end-consumer&#8217;s home or business. This is a fast-growing industry sector of that serves blue chip retailers, e-commerce companies and smaller retailers with limited in-house capabilities. 

Important aspects of last mile service are responsiveness to seasonal demand, economies of scale, and an ability to maintain a consistently high quality of customer experience. In addition, the last mile process often requires incremental services, including pre-scheduled delivery times, unpacking, assembly, utility connection, and installation as well as removal of an old product. These additional services are commonly referred to as white-glove services. We use our proprietary technology platforms to collect customer feedback, monitor carrier performance, manage capacity, and communicate during narrow windows of service to ensure an end-consumer experience that protects the brands of our retail customers. 

In February 2015, we further expanded our last mile logistics operations through the acquisition of UX Specialized Logistics (&#8220;UX&#8221;), a North American provider of last mile logistics services for major retail chains and e-commerce companies. For additional information on the UX acquisitions and other prior acquisitions, see Note 3 &#8212;Acquisitions , of Item 8, &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.&#8221; 

Less-Than-Truckload (LTL) 

The Company is the second largest provider of LTL services in North America, and holds leading LTL positions in the United Kingdom, France, Spain and Portugal. Our LTL business in North America is asset-based and utilizes employee drivers, a fleet of tractors and trailers for line-haul, pick-up and delivery, and a network of terminals. We provide day-definite regional, inter-regional and transcontinental LTL freight services. 

The Company&#8217;s LTL business in Europe is a mix of asset-based and asset-light, and utilizes both Company fleet and contracted carrier capacity, together with a network of terminals. We provide LTL services domestically in France, the United Kingdom, and Spain. We offer international LTL distribution across Europe. 

Prior to 2015, the Company provided limited LTL services on a brokered basis. On June 8, 2015, the Company acquired a majority interest in Norbert Dentressangle SA (&#8220;ND&#8221;), a leading provider of LTL services in Western Europe. On October 30, 2015, the Company acquired Con-way Inc. (&#8220;Con-way&#8221;), including its North American LTL business. For additional information on the ND and Con-way acquisitions and other prior acquisitions, see Note 3 &#8212;Acquisitions , of Item 8, &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.&#8221; 

Full Truckload 

The Company&#8217;s full truckload business is an asset-based motor carrier that utilizes a fleet of tractors and trailers to provide short- and long-haul, asset-based transportation services throughout North America and Europe. In North America, we provide dry-van transportation services to manufacturing, industrial and retail customers while using single drivers as well as two-person driver teams over long-haul routes, with each trailer containing only one customer&#8217;s goods. This origin-to-destination freight movement limits intermediate handling. In Europe, we provide transportation of packaged goods, high cube products, and bulk goods. We provide our services domestically in France, the United Kingdom, Spain, Poland, Romania, Italy and Slovakia, as well as internationally across Europe. 

Expedite 

The Company is the largest arranger of urgent, time-critical shipments in North America by ground and air transportation, through direct transacting and our web-based technology. This is predominantly a non-asset-based service: substantially all of the ground transportation equipment used by the operations is provided by independent owner-operators who own one truck or van, or by independent fleet owners of multiple trucks or vans who employ multiple drivers. We are focused on developing strong, long-term relationships with our independent owner-operators and fleet owners, and incentivizing them to furnish their capacity to us on an exclusive basis. Expedite air charter service is arranged using the Company's relationships with third-party air carriers. 

Our expedite services can be characterized as time-critical, time-sensitive or high priority freight shipments, many of which have special handling needs. The urgency typically arises due to tight tolerances in a customer&#8217;s supply chain, interruptions or changes in the supply chain, or the failure of another mode of transportation within the supply chain. We have the ability to arrange urgent shipments very quickly by over-the-road transportation, the largest component of our expedite volume, by using independent air charter carriers, and through our proprietary online bid technology. 

Expedited shipments are predominantly direct transit movements offering door-to-door service within tightly prescribed time parameters. Customers typically request our expedite services on a per-load transactional basis, with only a small percentage of loads being scheduled for future delivery dates. We operate an ISO 9001:2008 certified 24-hour, seven-day-a-week call center that gives our customers on-demand communications and status updates relating to their expedited shipments. 

Managed Transportation 

The Company is a top five global provider of managed transportation based on the value of freight under management. Our managed transportation offering includes a range of services provided to shippers who want to outsource some or all of their transportation modes, together with associated activities. These activities can include freight handling such as consolidation and deconsolidation, labor planning, inbound and outbound shipment facilitation, documentation and customs management, claims processing, and third party logistics, or 3PL, supplier management, among other things. 

Global Forwarding 

The Company&#8217;s global forwarding business operates as a non-asset logistics provider for domestic, cross-border and international shipments, as well as customized services. We provide these services through relationships with ground, air and ocean carriers and a network of Company-owned and agent-owned locations. Our forwarding capabilities are not restricted by size, weight, mode or location, and therefore are potentially attractive to a wide market base. 

As part of our global forwarding business, we operate a subsidiary as a non-vessel operating common carrier (&#8220;NVOCC&#8221;) to transport our customers&#8217; freight by contracting with vessel operators. 

We are also a customs broker, licensed by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Service to act on behalf of importers in handling customs formalities and other details. We provide customs brokerage services to direct domestic importers in connection with many of the shipments that we handle as an NVOCC, as well as shipments arranged by other freight forwarders, NVOCCs or vessel operating common carriers. 

Logistics 

In our Logistics segment, which we refer to as supply chain, the Company provides a range of contract logistics services, including highly engineered and customized solutions, e-commerce fulfillment and reverse logistics, as well as high-value-add warehousing and distribution solutions such as factory support, aftermarket support, integrated manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution and transportation. In addition, we utilize our technology and expertise to solve complex supply chain challenges and create transformative solutions for world-class customers, while reducing their operating costs and improving production flow management. 

We operate approximately 151 million &#32;square feet ( 14.0 million &#32;square meters) of facility space devoted to our contract logistics operations, with about 65.0 million &#32;square feet ( 6.1 million &#32;square meters) of that capacity in the United States. When we establish relationships through contractual agreements, it can lead to a wider use of our services, such as inbound and outbound logistics. 

Customers of our supply chain business primarily operate in industries with high-growth outsourcing opportunities, such as high tech, e-commerce, telecommunications, aerospace and defense, healthcare, medical equipment, agriculture, food and beverage, and select areas of manufacturing. These customers have demanding requirements for quality standards, real-time data visibility, customer service, handling of high-value products, high transaction volumes with large numbers of stock keeping units (&#8220;SKUs&#8221;), and/or time-assured deliveries. 

In 2015, we further expanded our supply chain business through the ND and Con-way acquisitions. For additional information on these and other acquisitions, see Note 3 &#8212;Acquisitions , of Item 8, &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.&#8221; 

Our Strategy 

XPO Logistics is a top ten global transportation and logistics company, providing cutting-edge supply chain solutions to the most successful companies in the world. We have established leading positions in key areas of transportation and logistics where there is strong secular demand. We offer our solutions through our highly integrated, multi-modal organization that operates under the XPO Logistics brand worldwide. Our strategy is to deliver unmatched value to customers through our highly integrated organization, extensive service range, global critical mass, and the disciplined execution of initiatives that increase our profitability and create long-term value for our customers and shareholders. 

We are continuing to optimize our existing operations by growing our sales force, implementing advanced information technology, cross-selling our services and leveraging our shared capacity. We have a disciplined framework of processes in place for the recruiting, training and mentoring of newly hired employees, and for marketing to the hundreds of thousands of prospective customers who can use our services. Our network is supported by our proprietary information technology that includes robust sales, service, carrier procurement, warehouse management, and customer experience management capabilities, as well as benchmarking and analysis. Most important to our growth, we have instilled a culture of passionate customer service. 

Information Systems and Intellectual Property 

One of the ways we empower our employees to deliver world-class service is through our information technology (&#8220;IT&#8221;). We believe that technology is a big differentiator in our industry. Technology represents one of our Company&#8217;s largest categories of investment within our annual capital expenditure budget, reflecting our belief that the continual enhancement of our technology platforms is critical to our success. We have an IT team of over 1,500 &#32;talented professionals who focus on driving innovation and advancing the effectiveness of our systems. 

In our freight brokerage business, our proprietary Freight Optimizer software solution for truck brokerage provides actionable pricing information as well as cost effective, timely and reliable access to carrier capacity, which we believe gives us an advantage versus our competitors. In 2015, also in freight brokerage, we launched our proprietary Rail Optimizer software that optimizes all aspects of the intermodal network, including shipment management, capacity flow and asset management, market-based pricing, and shipment execution with rail providers. 

In our last mile logistics business, our proprietary software provides real-time workflow visibility and customer experience management for superior satisfaction ratings. In our expedite business, we utilize satellite tracking and communication units on the independently contracted vehicles that transport goods for our customers, to provide our customers with real-time electronic updates. Our managed transportation business relies strongly on state-of-the-art technology. This includes our proprietary bidding software, which awards loads electronically based on carriers&#8217; online bids. 

In our Logistics segment, we have developed proprietary technology that enables sophisticated contract logistics solutions for large multi-national and medium-sized corporations and government agencies with complex supply chain requirements. This 

software supports services such as omni-channel distribution, reverse logistics, transportation management, freight bill audit and payment, lean manufacturing support, aftermarket support and supply chain optimization. 

We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and nondisclosure and non-competition agreements to establish and protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology. Additionally, we have numerous registered trademarks, trade names, and logos in the United States and international jurisdictions. 

Customers, Sales and Marketing 

Our Company provides services to a variety of customers ranging in size from small, entrepreneurial organizations to Fortune 500 &#32;companies. During 2015, our business units served more than 50,000 &#32;different customers. Approximately 6.6% &#32;of our 2015 pro forma revenue was attributable to our top five clients, with our largest customer accounting for approximately 1.8% &#32;of our pro forma revenue. 

Our customers are engaged in a wide range of industries, including high tech, retail, e-commerce, manufacturing, telecommunications, aerospace and defense, life sciences, healthcare, medical equipment, agriculture, and food and beverage. 

Our transportation businesses are primarily marketed in North America and Europe. Our logistics and global forwarding businesses serve global markets, with concentrations in North America, Europe and Asia. Pro forma for 2015 acquisitions, approximately 60% &#32;of our revenue was generated in the United States, 12% &#32;in France, 12% &#32;in the United Kingdom, 4% &#32;in Spain and 12% &#32;in other countries. 

To best serve our customers, we maintain a significant staff of sales representatives and related support personnel. Our sales strategy is twofold: we seek to establish long-term relationships with new accounts and to increase the amount of business generated from our existing customer base. These objectives are served by our position as one of the largest third-party logistics providers in the world and by our ability to cross-sell a range of services. We believe that these attributes are competitive advantages in the transportation and logistics industry. See Note 20 &#32; &#8212;Segment Reporting and Geographic Information &#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further geographic information. 

Competition 

The transportation and logistics industry is highly competitive, with thousands of companies competing in the domestic and international markets. Our competitors include local, regional, national and international companies with the same services that our business units provide. Due in part to the fragmented nature of the industry, our business units must strive daily to retain existing business relationships and forge new relationships. 

We compete on service, reliability, scope of operations, information technology capabilities and price. Some competitors have larger customer bases, significantly more resources and more experience than we do. The health of the transportation and logistics industry will continue to be a function of domestic and global economic growth. However, we believe we will benefit from the growth of e-commerce, as well as from a long-term outsourcing trend that should continue to enable certain sectors of transportation and logistics to grow at rates that outpace growth in the macro-environment. 

Regulation 

Our operations are regulated and licensed by various governmental agencies in the United States and in the other countries where we operate. Such regulations impact us directly and indirectly by regulating third-party transportation providers we use to transport freight for our customers. 

Regulation affecting Motor Carriers, Owner Operators and Transportation Brokers . In the United States, our subsidiaries that operate as motor carriers have licenses to operate as motor carriers from the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (&#8220;FMCSA&#8221;) of the U.S. Department of Transportation (&#8220;DOT&#8221;). In addition, our subsidiaries acting as property brokers have property broker licenses from the FMCSA. Our motor carrier subsidiaries and the third-party motor carriers we engage in the United States must comply with the safety and fitness regulations of the DOT, including those relating to drug- and alcohol-testing, hours-of-service, records retention, vehicle inspection, driver qualification and minimum insurance requirements. Weight and equipment dimensions also are subject to government regulations. We also may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to emissions, drivers&#8217; hours-of-service, independent contractor eligibility requirements, onboard reporting of operations, air cargo security and other matters affecting safety or operating methods. Other agencies, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (&#8220;EPA&#8221;), the Food and Drug Administration, the California Air Resources Board, and U.S. Department of Homeland Security (&#8220;DHS&#8221;), also regulate our equipment, operations and independent contractor drivers. We and the third-party carriers we use are also subject to a variety of vehicle registration and licensing requirements of the state or other local jurisdictions in which they operate. In other foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, our operations are regulated, where necessary, by the appropriate governmental authority. 

In 2010, the FMCSA introduced the Compliance Safety Accountability program (&#8220;CSA&#8221;), which uses a Safety Management System (&#8220;SMS&#8221;) to rank motor carriers on seven categories of safety-related data, known as Behavioral Analysis and Safety Improvement Categories, or &#8220;BASICs,&#8221; which data, it is anticipated, will eventually be used for determining a carrier&#8217;s DOT 

safety rating under revisions to existing Safety Fitness Determination (&#8220;SFD&#8221;) regulations. In December 2015, the Fixing America&#8217;s Surface Transportation Act (&#8220;FAST Act&#8221;) was signed into law, which requires the FMCSA to review the CSA program to ensure that it provides the most reliable analysis possible. During this review period, the FAST Act requires the FMCSA to remove a property carrier&#8217;s CSA scores from public view. The FMCSA has since announced an SFD Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (&#8220;NPRM&#8221;) that would revamp the current three-tier federal rating system for federally regulated commercial motor carriers. 

Although the CSA scores are not currently publicly available, this development is likely to be temporary. As a result, once the program has been revamped, our fleet could be ranked poorly as compared to our competitors, and the safety ratings of our motor carrier operations could be adversely impacted. Our network of third-party transportation providers may experience a similar result. A reduction in safety and fitness ratings may result in difficulty attracting and retaining qualified independent contractors and could cause our customers to direct their business away from us and to carriers with more favorable CSA scores, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 

In the past, the subsidiaries through which we operate our expedited and intermodal drayage operations have exceeded the established intervention threshold in certain of the BASICs, and we may exceed those thresholds in the future. Depending on our ratings, we may be prioritized for an intervention action or roadside inspection, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, or customers may be less likely to assign loads to us. We cannot predict the extent to which CSA requirements or safety and fitness ratings under SMS or SFD could adversely affect our business, operations or ability to retain compliant drivers, or those of our subsidiaries, independent contractors or third-party transportation providers. 

The FMCSA has proposed new rules that would require nearly all carriers, including us, to install and use electronic logging devices (&#8220;ELD&#8221;). The proposed regulations provide for the installation and use of ELDs to be required two years after publication of the final regulations. ELD installation will increase costs for, and may not be well-received by, independent contractors. 

Our operations providing certain services in California are also subject to various regulatory initiatives such as the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach clean truck program effective in 2009, California Air Resources Board (&#8220;CARB&#8221;) truck regulation effective in 2010 and the Port of Oakland truck ban effective in 2010, each of which banned trucks that did not meet certain emissions standards. To comply with these requirements, our motor carrier subsidiaries providing certain services in California have implemented programs to source truck capacity from independent owner operators that meet these emissions requirements. The State of California also has required diesel tractors as well as 53-foot long and other trailers operated in the state to satisfy certain fuel efficiency and other performance requirements by compliance target dates occurring between 2011 and 2023. Compliance with California&#8217;s and ports&#8217; regulations has increased rates payable to owner operators operating in California and new tractor costs, might increase the costs of new trailers operated in California, might require the retrofitting of pre-2011 model year trailers operated in California, and could diminish equipment productivity and increase operating expenses. 

Regulations affecting our Subsidiaries Providing Ocean and Air Transportation . XPO Customs Clearance Solutions, Inc. (&#8220;XCCS&#8221;) and NDO America, Inc. (following its anticipated name change to XPO GF America, Inc., &#8220;XGFA&#8221;), two of our subsidiaries, are licensed as customs brokers by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (&#8220;CBP&#8221;) of DHS in each United States customs district in which they do business. All United States customs brokers are required to maintain prescribed records and are subject to periodic audits by CBP. In other jurisdictions in which we perform customs brokerage services, our operations are licensed, where necessary, by the appropriate governmental authority. 

Our subsidiaries offering expedited air charter transportation are subject to regulation by the Transportation Security Administration (&#8220;TSA&#8221;) of DHS regarding air cargo security for all loads, regardless of origin and destination. XPO Global Forwarding, Inc. (&#8220;XGF&#8221;), XGFA and XPO Air Charter also are regulated as &#8220;indirect air carriers&#8221; by the DHS and TSA. These agencies provide requirements, guidance and, in some cases, administer licensing requirements and processes applicable to the freight forwarding industry. We must actively monitor our compliance with such agency requirements to ensure that we have satisfactorily completed the security requirements and qualifications and implemented the required policies and procedures. These agencies generally require companies to fulfill these qualifications prior to transacting various types of business. Failure to do so could result in penalties and fines. The air cargo industry is also subject to regulatory and legislative actions that could affect the economic conditions within the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or influencing the demand for and the costs of providing services to clients. We cannot predict the extent to which any such regulatory or legislative actions could adversely affect our business and operations, but we strive to comply with and satisfy agency requirements. 

For our international operations, XGF, XGFA and XCCS are members of the International Air Transportation Association (&#8220;IATA&#8221;), a voluntary association of airlines and forwarders that outlines operating procedures for freight forwarders acting as agents or third-party intermediaries for its members. A substantial portion of our international air freight business is completed with other IATA members. 

For our international oceanic freight forwarding business, XGF, XGFA and XPO Ocean Lines, Inc. (&#8220;XOL&#8221;), are registered as an Ocean Transportation Intermediary (&#8220;OTI&#8221;) by the U.S. Federal Maritime Commission (&#8220;FMC&#8221;), which establishes the 

qualifications, regulations and bonding requirements to operate as an OTI for businesses originating and terminating in the United States. XGL and XOL are also licensed NVOCCs and ocean freight forwarders. 

Our international freight forwarder operations subject us to regulations of the U.S. Department of State, U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. Department of Treasury and to various laws and regulations of the other countries where we operate. Regulations cover matters such as what commodities may be shipped to what destination and to what end-user, unfair international trade practices, and limitations on entities with which we may conduct business. 

Other Regulations. &#32;We are subject to a variety of other U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including but not limited to, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other similar anti-bribery and anti-corruption statutes. 

Classification of Independent Contractors . Tax and other federal and state regulatory authorities as well as private litigants continue to assert that independent contractor drivers in the trucking industry are employees rather than independent contractors. Federal legislators have introduced legislation in the past to make it easier for tax and other authorities to reclassify independent contractors as employees, including legislation to increase the recordkeeping requirements for employers of independent contractors and to heighten the penalties of employers who misclassify their employees and are found to have violated employees&#8217; overtime and/or wage requirements. Additionally, federal legislators have sought to abolish the current safe harbor allowing taxpayers meeting certain criteria to treat individuals as independent contractors if they are following a long-standing, recognized practice. Federal legislators also sought to expand the Fair Labor Standards Act to cover &#8220;non-employees&#8221; who perform labor or services for businesses, even if the &#8220;non-employees&#8221; are properly classified as independent contractors; require taxpayers to provide written notice to workers based upon their classification as either an &#8220;employee&#8221; or a &#8220;non-employee&#8221;; and impose penalties and fines for violations of the notice requirements or &#8220;employee&#8221; or &#8220;non-employee&#8221; misclassifications. Some states have put initiatives in place to increase their revenues from items such as unemployment, workers&#8217; compensation and income taxes, and a reclassification of independent contractors as employees would help states with this initiative. Taxing and other regulatory authorities and courts apply a variety of standards in their determination of independent contractor status. If our independent contractor drivers are determined to be our employees, we would incur additional exposure under some or all of the following: federal and state tax, workers&#8217; compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, employment and tort laws, including for prior periods, as well as potential liability for employee benefits and tax withholdings. 

Environmental Regulations . In the United States, our facilities and operations and our independent contractors are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the hauling, handling and disposal of hazardous materials, emissions from vehicles, engine-idling, fuel spillage and seepage, discharge and retention of storm water, and other environmental matters that involve inherent environmental risks. Similar laws and regulations may apply in many of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. We have instituted programs to monitor and control environmental risks and maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. We may be responsible for the cleanup of any spill or other release involving hazardous materials caused by our operations or business. In the past, we have been responsible for the costs of cleanup of diesel fuel spills caused by traffic accidents or other events, and none of these incidents materially affected our business or operations. We generally transport only hazardous materials rated as low-to-medium-risk, and a small percentage of our total shipments contain hazardous materials. We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with current laws and regulations and do not know of any existing environmental condition that would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business or operating results. We also do not expect to incur material capital expenditures for environmental controls in 2016. Future changes in environmental regulations or liabilities from newly discovered environmental conditions or violations (and any associated fines and penalties) could have a material adverse effect on our business, competitive position, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. U.S. federal and state governments, as well as governments in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, have also proposed environmental legislation that could, among other things, potentially limit carbon, exhaust and greenhouse gas emissions. If enacted, such legislation could also result in higher new tractor and trailer costs, reduced productivity and efficiency, and increased operating expenses, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. 

Risk Management and Insurance 

U.S. Operations 

We maintain insurance for commercial automobile liability, truckers&#8217; commercial automobile liability, commercial general liability, workers&#8217; compensation and employers&#8217; liability and umbrella and excess umbrella liability, with coverage limits, deductibles and self-insured retention levels that we believe are reasonable given the varying historical frequency, severity and timing of claims. However, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage will effectively protect us in the event of claims made against us. 

We generally require the contract carriers that we engage to have at least $1 million of automobile liability insurance and $100,000 of cargo insurance, or up to $250,000 in the case of our intermodal carriers. We require motor carriers we engage to enter into a written agreement with us and to meet safety and performance qualification standards. We also require motor carriers to have workers compensation and other insurance as required by law in connection with the specific tasks they are undertaking. Railroads, which are largely self-insured, provide limited common carrier cargo liability protection, generally up to $250,000 per container. 

In our truck and intermodal brokerage operations, we generally are not liable for damage to our customers&#8217; cargo or in connection with damage arising from the provision of transportation services. However, in some instances, we agree to assume cargo and other liability. While we endeavor to limit this exposure to matters arising due to our negligence or misconduct, or to cap our exposure at a stated maximum dollar amount, we are not always able to do so. 

With respect to our LTL, full truckload, expedited transportation and intermodal drayage operations where we perform services as a licensed motor carrier and in our freight forwarding and last-mile delivery logistics businesses, we have primary liability to our customer for cargo loss and damage and for certain liabilities caused by our independent contractors and contracted carriers. Accordingly, liability claims may be asserted against us for the actions of transportation providers we engage and their employees or independent contractors, or for our actions in retaining them. Claims against us may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may not be covered by insurance at all. 

We maintain liability insurance policies to help protect us against losses that may not be recovered from the responsible contracted carrier. Our last-mile delivery logistics operations may involve installation of appliances in customers&#8217; homes involving water, gas or electric connections. We maintain commercial general liability insurance coverage to help protect us from claims related to these services. Our warehouse operations generally maintain legal liability insurance coverage and maintain contractually required all risk Inland Marine coverage to help protect us against claims arising from damage or loss to customer goods stored in our warehouses. We also maintain property damage insurance to help protect us against damage to our property. Our terms of carriage on international and ocean shipments limit our liability consistent with industry standards. We offer our brokerage, NVOCC and freight forwarding customers the option to purchase all risk cargo insurance for their shipments. 

International Operations 

Whenever our policies of insurance and their coverage territory are not worldwide, or are not-admitted in a specific country where we operate, but are compulsory in nature, we purchase coverage in that country as necessary to meet local requirements, with coverage placed through local insurers. In jurisdictions outside the United States we maintain insurance coverage for various forms of public liability, occupational accidents and first party property loss, with coverage limits, deductibles and or self-retention levels we believe are reasonable given the historical frequency, severity and timing of claims. However, we cannot provide assurance that such coverages will in all instances effectively protect us in the event of claims made against us or for loss or damage to our property. 

Seasonality 

XPO&#8217;s revenue and profitability are typically lower for the first quarter of the calendar year relative to other quarters. The Company believes this is due in part to the post-holiday reduction in demand experienced by many XPO customers, which leads to more capacity in the non-expedited and service-critical markets and, in turn, less demand for expedited and premium shipping services. In addition, the productivity of the Company&#8217;s fleet of tractors and trailers, independent contractors and transportation providers generally decreases during the winter season because inclement weather impedes operations. It is not possible to predict whether the historical revenue and profitability trends will occur in future periods. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 89,000 &#32;full-time and part-time employees. We recognize our trained staff of employees as one of our most critical resources and acknowledge the recruitment, training and retention of qualified employees as essential to our ongoing success. We believe that we have good relations with our employees. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

We provide below information regarding each of our executive officers. 

Name 

&#160; 

Age 

&#160; 

Position 

Bradley S. Jacobs 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 

Troy A. Cooper 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Chief Operating Officer and Chief Executive Officer-Europe 

John J. Hardig 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Chief Financial Officer 

Gordon E. Devens 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Chief Legal Officer 

Scott B. Malat 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Chief Strategy Officer 

Mario A. Harik 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Chief Information Officer 

Bradley Jacobs &#32;has served as our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the board of directors since September 2011. Mr. Jacobs is also the managing director of Jacobs Private Equity, LLC, which is our largest stockholder. He has led two public companies: United Rentals, Inc. (NYSE: URI), which he co-founded in 1997, and United Waste Systems, Inc., founded in 1989. Mr. Jacobs served as chairman and chief executive officer of United Rentals for its first six years and as executive chairman for an additional four years. He served eight years as chairman and chief executive officer of United Waste Systems. Previously, Mr. Jacobs founded Hamilton Resources (UK) Ltd. and served as its chairman and chief operating officer. This followed the co-founding of his first venture, Amerex Oil Associates, Inc., where he was chief executive officer. 

Troy Cooper &#32;has served as our Chief Operating Officer since May 2014 and in addition, has served as the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of XPO Logistics Europe since September 2015. Mr. Cooper joined our company in September 2011 as Vice President&#8212;Finance, and has held positions of increasing responsibility since then. Mr. Cooper is responsible for the day-to-day operations and profit and loss performance of the Company. Mr. Cooper was most recently with United Rentals, Inc., where he served as vice president&#8212;group controller responsible for field finance functions and helped to integrate over 200 acquisitions in the United States, Canada and Mexico. Previously, he held controller positions with United Waste Systems, Inc. and OSI Specialties, Inc. (formerly a division of Union Carbide, Inc.). Mr. Cooper began his career in public accounting with Arthur Andersen and Co. and has a degree in accounting from Marietta College. 

John Hardig &#32;has served as our Chief Financial Officer since February 2012. Mr. Hardig most recently served as managing director for the Transportation &#38; Logistics investment banking group of Stifel Nicolaus Weisel from 2003 until joining our company. Prior to that, Mr. Hardig was an investment banker in the Transportation and Telecom groups at Alex. Brown &#38; Sons (now Deutsche Bank) and earlier in his career, worked as a design engineer at Ford Motor Company. Mr. Hardig holds a master of business administration degree from the University of Michigan Business School and a bachelor&#8217;s degree from the U.S. Naval Academy. 

Gordon Devens &#32;joined us in November 2011 as Senior Vice President and General Counsel and has served as our Chief Legal Officer since November 2015. Prior to joining us, Mr. Devens was most recently vice president&#8212;corporate development with AutoNation, Inc., where he was previously vice president&#8212;associate general counsel. Earlier, he was an associate at the law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &#38; Flom LLP, where he specialized in mergers and acquisitions and securities law. Mr. Devens holds a doctorate of jurisprudence and a bachelor&#8217;s degree in business administration from the University of Michigan. 

Scott Malat &#32;has served as our Chief Strategy Officer since July 2012. Mr. Malat served as our Senior Vice President&#8212;Strategic Planning from the time he joined us in October 2011 until July 2012. Prior to joining XPO Logistics, Mr. Malat was with Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., where he served as senior equity research analyst covering the air, rail, trucking and shipping sectors. Earlier, Mr. Malat was an equity research analyst with UBS, and a strategy manager with JPMorgan Chase &#38; Co. He serves on the board of directors of the non-profit PSC Partners Seeking a Cure. He is a CFA &#174; &#32;charterholder and has a degree in statistics with a concentration in business management from Cornell University. 

Mario Harik &#32;has served as our Chief Information Officer since November 2011. Mr. Harik has built comprehensive IT organizations and overseen the implementation of proprietary platforms for a variety of firms and has consulted to members of the Fortune 100 . His prior positions include chief information officer and senior vice president&#8212;research and development with Oakleaf Waste Management; chief technology officer with Tallan, Inc.; co-founder of G3 Analyst, where he served as chief architect of web and voice applications; and architect and consultant with Adea Solutions. Mr. Harik holds a master of engineering degree in information technology from Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and a degree in engineering, computer and communications from the American University of Beirut, Lebanon. 

Corporate Information and Availability of Reports 

XPO Logistics, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware on May 8, 2000. Our executive office is located at Five Greenwich Office Park, Greenwich, Connecticut 06831. Our telephone number is (855) 976-4636. Our stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (&#8220;NYSE&#8221;) under the symbol &#8220;XPO&#8221;. 

Our corporate website is www.xpo.com . We make available on this website, free of charge, access to our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A and amendments to those materials filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically submit such material to the SEC. We also make available on our website copies of materials regarding our corporate governance policies and practices, including the XPO Logistics, Inc. Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Senior Officer Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters relating to the committees of our board of directors. You also may obtain a printed copy of the foregoing materials by sending a written request to: Investor Relations, XPO Logistics, Inc., Five Greenwich Office Park, Greenwich, Connecticut 06831. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC&#8217;s website is www.sec.gov . The SEC makes available on this website, free of charge, reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the SEC. Information on our website or the SEC&#8217;s website is not part of this document. We are currently classified as a &#8220;large accelerated filer&#8221; for purposes of filings with the SEC. 

