 Item 1. 

Business. 

YUM! Brands, Inc. (referred to herein as &#8220;YUM&#8221;, the &#8220;Registrant&#8221; or the &#8220;Company&#8221;), was incorporated under the laws of the state of North Carolina in 1997. The principal executive offices of YUM are located at 1441 Gardiner Lane, Louisville, Kentucky 40213, and the telephone number at that location is (502) 874-8300. Our website address is http://yum.com . 

YUM, together with its subsidiaries, is referred to in this Form 10-K annual report (&#8220;Form 10-K&#8221;) as the Company. The terms &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221; are also used in the Form 10-K to refer to the Company. Throughout this Form 10-K, the terms &#8220;restaurants,&#8221; &#8220;stores&#8221; and &#8220;units&#8221; are used interchangeably. While YUM! Brands, Inc., referred to as the Company, does not directly own or operate any restaurants, throughout this document we may refer to restaurants that are owned or operated by our subsidiaries as being Company-owned. 

Financial Information about Operating Segments and General Development of the Business 

As of December 26, 2015, YUM consists of five operating segments: 

&#8226; 

YUM China (&#8220;China&#8221; or &#8220;China Division&#8221;) which includes all operations in mainland China 

&#8226; 

YUM India ("India" or "India Division") which includes all operations in India, Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka 

&#8226; 

The KFC Division which includes all operations of the KFC concept outside of China Division and India Division 

&#8226; 

The Pizza Hut Division which includes all operations of the Pizza Hut concept outside of China Division and India Division 

&#8226; 

The Taco Bell Division which includes all operations of the Taco Bell concept outside of India Division 

Effective January, 2016 the India Division was segmented by brand, integrated into the global KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell Divisions, and is no longer a separate operating segment. While our consolidated results will not be impacted, we will restate our historical segment information during 2016 for consistent presentation. 

Operating segment information for the years ended December 26, 2015, December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013 for the Company is included in Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&#38;A") and in the related Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. 

In October, 2015 we announced our intent to separate YUM's China business from YUM into an independent, publicly-traded company by the end of 2016. See our MD&#38;A in this Form 10-K for further information. 

Narrative Description of Business 

General 

YUM has over 42,000 restaurants in more than 130 countries and territories. Primarily through the three concepts of KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell (the &#8220;Concepts&#8221;), the Company develops, operates, franchises and licenses a worldwide system of restaurants which prepare, package and sell a menu of competitively priced food items. Units are operated by a Concept or by independent franchisees or licensees under the terms of franchise or license agreements. Franchisees can range in size from individuals owning just one restaurant to large publicly-traded companies. 

The China Division, based in Shanghai, China, comprises 7,176 units, primarily Company-owned KFCs and Pizza Huts. In 2015, the China Division recorded revenues of approximately $6.9 billion and Operating Profit of $757 million. The Company owns a controlling interest in Little Sheep Group Limited ("Little Sheep"), a casual dining concept headquartered in Inner Mongolia, China. We also own non-controlling interests in Chinese entities who operate in a manner similar to KFC franchisees and a meat processing entity that supplies lamb to the Little Sheep business. The KFC Division comprises 14,577 units, operating in 120 countries and territories outside China and India and recorded revenues of approximately $2.9 billion and Operating Profit of $677 million in 2015. The Pizza Hut Division comprises 13,728 units, operating in 90 countries and territories outside China and India and recorded revenues of approximately $1.1 billion and Operating Profit of $289 million in 2015. The Taco Bell Division comprises 6,400 units, operating in 20 countries and territories outside of India and recorded revenues of approximately $2.0 billion and Operating Profit of $539 million in 2015. The India Division, based in Delhi, India comprises 811 units, operating in 4 countries and recorded revenues of $115 million and an Operating Loss of $19 million in 2015. 

Restaurant Concepts 

Most restaurants in each Concept offer consumers the ability to dine in and/or carry out food. In addition, Taco Bell and KFC offer a drive-thru option in many stores. Pizza Hut offers a drive-thru option on a much more limited basis. Pizza Hut typically offers delivery service, as does KFC on a more limited basis primarily in China. 

Each Concept has proprietary menu items and emphasizes the preparation of food with high quality ingredients, as well as unique recipes and special seasonings to provide appealing, tasty and convenient food at competitive prices. 

The franchise programs of the Company are designed to promote consistency and quality, and the Company is selective in granting franchises. Under standard franchise agreements, franchisees supply capital &#8211; initially by paying a franchise fee to YUM, by purchasing or leasing the land, building, equipment, signs, seating, inventories and supplies and, over the longer term, by reinvesting in the business. Franchisees contribute to the Company&#8217;s revenues on an ongoing basis through the payment of royalties based on a percentage of sales. 

The Company believes that it is important to maintain strong and open relationships with its franchisees and their representatives. To this end, the Company invests a significant amount of time working with the franchisee community and their representative organizations on key aspects of the business, including products, equipment, operational improvements and standards and management techniques. 

Following is a brief description of each Concept: 

KFC 

&#8226; 

KFC was founded in Corbin, Kentucky by Colonel Harland D. Sanders, an early developer of the quick service food business and a pioneer of the restaurant franchise concept. The Colonel perfected his secret blend of 11 herbs and spices for Kentucky Fried Chicken in 1939 and signed up his first franchisee in 1952. 

&#8226; 

KFC operates in 125 countries and territories throughout the world. As of year end 2015, KFC had 5,003 units in China, 372 units in India and 14,577 units within the KFC Division. 76 percent of the China units, 30 percent of the India units and 10 percent of the units outside China and India are Company-owned. 

&#8226; 

KFC restaurants across the world offer fried and non-fried chicken products such as sandwiches, chicken strips, chicken-on-the-bone and other chicken products marketed under a variety of names. KFC restaurants also offer a variety of entrees and side items suited to local preferences and tastes. Restaurant decor throughout the world is characterized by the image of the Colonel. 

Pizza Hut 

&#8226; 

The first Pizza Hut restaurant was opened in 1958 in Wichita, Kansas, and within a year, the first franchise unit was opened. Today, Pizza Hut is the largest restaurant chain in the world specializing in the sale of ready-to-eat pizza products. 

&#8226; 

Pizza Hut operates in 95 countries and territories throughout the world. As of year end 2015, Pizza Hut had 1,903 units in China, 432 units in India and 13,728 units within the Pizza Hut Division. Nearly all of the China units, none of the India units and 6 percent of the units outside China and India are Company-owned. 

&#8226; 

Pizza Hut operates in the delivery, carryout and casual dining segments around the world. Outside of the U.S., Pizza Hut often uses unique branding to differentiate these segments. Additionally, a growing percentage of Pizza Hut's customer orders are being generated digitally. 

&#8226; 

Pizza Hut features a variety of pizzas which are marketed under varying names. Each of these pizzas is offered with a variety of different toppings suited to local preferences and tastes. Many Pizza Huts also offer pasta and chicken wings, including approximately 5,900 stores offering wings under the brand WingStreet in the U.S. Outside the U.S., Pizza Hut casual dining restaurants offer a variety of core menu products other than pizza, which are typically suited to local preferences and tastes. Pizza Hut units feature a distinctive red roof logo on their signage. 

Taco Bell 

&#8226; 

The first Taco Bell restaurant was opened in 1962 by Glen Bell in Downey, California, and in 1964, the first Taco Bell franchise was sold. 

&#8226; 

Taco Bell operates in 21 countries and territories throughout the world. As of year end 2015, there were 6,400 Taco Bell units within the Taco Bell Division, primarily in the U.S., and 7 units in India. 14 percent of the units within the Taco Bell Division and 86 percent of the India units are Company-owned. 

&#8226; 

Taco Bell specializes in Mexican-style food products, including various types of tacos, burritos, quesadillas, salads, nachos and other related items. Taco Bell offers breakfast items in its U.S. stores. Taco Bell units feature a distinctive bell logo on their signage. 

Restaurant Operations 

Through its Concepts, YUM develops, operates, franchises and licenses a worldwide system of both traditional and non-traditional Quick Service Restaurants ("QSR"). Traditional units feature dine-in, carryout and, in some instances, drive-thru or delivery services. Non-traditional units, which are typically licensed outlets, include express units and kiosks which have a more limited menu, usually generate lower sales volumes and operate in non-traditional locations like malls, airports, gasoline service stations, train stations, subways, convenience stores, stadiums, amusement parks and colleges, where a full-scale traditional outlet would not be practical or efficient. 

Restaurant management structure varies by Concept and unit size. Generally, each Concept-owned restaurant is led by a restaurant general manager (&#8220;RGM&#8221;), together with one or more assistant managers, depending on the operating complexity and sales volume of the restaurant. Each Concept issues detailed manuals, which may then be customized to meet local regulations and customs. These manuals set forth standards and requirements for all aspects of restaurant operations, including food safety and quality, food handling and product preparation procedures, equipment maintenance, facility standards and accounting control procedures. The restaurant management teams are responsible for the day-to-day operation of each unit and for ensuring compliance with operating standards. CHAMPS &#8211; which stands for Cleanliness, Hospitality, Accuracy, Maintenance, Product Quality and Speed of Service &#8211; is our proprietary systemwide program for training, measuring and rewarding employee performance against key customer measures. CHAMPS is intended to align the operating processes of our entire system around one core set of standards. RGMs&#8217; efforts, including CHAMPS performance measures, are monitored by Area Coaches. Area Coaches typically work with approximately six to twelve restaurants. Various senior operators visit restaurants from time to time to promote adherence to system standards and mentor restaurant team members. 

Supply &#32; and Distribution 

The Company&#8217;s Concepts, including Concept units operated by its franchisees, are substantial purchasers of a number of food and paper products, equipment and other restaurant supplies. The principal items purchased include chicken, cheese, beef and pork products, paper and packaging materials. The Company has not experienced any significant continuous shortages of supplies, and alternative sources for most of these products are generally available. Prices paid for these supplies fluctuate. When prices increase, the Concepts may attempt to pass on such increases to their customers, although there is no assurance that this can be done practically. 

China Division &#32;&#32;In China, we partner with approximately 450 independent food and paper suppliers, mostly China-based, providing a wide range of products. The Company, along with multiple independently owned and operated distributors, utilizes approximately 20 logistic centers to distribute restaurant products to our Company and franchise stores. We also own a seasoning facility and a non-controlling interest in a meat processing facility in Inner Mongolia, both of which supply products to our Little Sheep business, as well as third-party customers. 

Other Divisions In the U.S., the Company, along with the representatives of the Company&#8217;s KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell franchisee groups, are members of Restaurant Supply Chain Solutions, LLC (&#8220;RSCS"), which is responsible for purchasing certain restaurant products and equipment. The core mission of RSCS is to provide the lowest possible sustainable store-delivered prices for restaurant products and equipment. This arrangement combines the purchasing power of the Company-owned and franchisee restaurants which the Company believes leverages the system&#8217;s scale to drive cost savings and effectiveness in the purchasing function. The Company also believes that RSCS fosters closer alignment of interests and a stronger relationship with its franchisee community. 

Most food products, paper and packaging supplies, and equipment used in restaurant operations are distributed to individual restaurant units by third-party distribution companies. In the U.S., McLane Company, Inc. (&#8220;McLane&#8221;) is the exclusive distributor for the majority of items used in Company-owned restaurants and for a substantial number of franchisee and licensee stores. The Company entered into an agreement with McLane effective January 1, 2011 relating to distribution to Company-owned restaurants. This agreement extends through December 31, 2016 and generally restricts Company-owned restaurants from using alternative distributors for most products. 

Outside the U.S., we and our franchisees use decentralized sourcing and distribution systems involving many different global, regional and local suppliers and distributors. We have approximately 5,700 food and paper suppliers, including U.S.-based suppliers that export to many countries. 

Trademarks and Patents 

The Company and its Concepts own numerous registered trademarks and service marks. The Company believes that many of these marks, including its Kentucky Fried Chicken&#174;, KFC&#174;, Pizza Hut&#174; and Taco Bell&#174; marks, have significant value and are materially important to its business. The Company&#8217;s policy is to pursue registration of its important marks whenever feasible and to oppose vigorously any infringement of its marks. 

The use of these marks by franchisees and licensees has been authorized in our franchise and license agreements. Under current law and with proper use, the Company&#8217;s rights in its marks can generally last indefinitely. The Company also has certain patents on restaurant equipment which, while valuable, are not material to its business. 

Working Capital 

Information about the Company&#8217;s working capital is included in MD&#38;A in Part II, Item 7 and the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Part II, Item 8. 

Seasonal Operations 

The Company does not consider its operations to be seasonal to any material degree. 

Competition 

The retail food industry, in which our Concepts compete, is made up of supermarkets, supercenters, warehouse stores, convenience stores, coffee shops, snack bars, delicatessens and restaurants (including the QSR segment), and is intensely competitive with respect to food quality, price, service, convenience, location and concept. The industry is often affected by changes in consumer tastes; national, regional or local economic conditions; currency fluctuations; demographic trends; traffic patterns; the type, number and location of competing food retailers and products; and disposable purchasing power. Each of the Concepts competes with international, national and regional restaurant chains as well as locally-owned restaurants, not only for customers, but also for management and hourly personnel, suitable real estate sites and qualified franchisees. Given the various types and vast number of competitors, our Concepts do not constitute a significant portion of the retail food industry in terms of number of system units or system sales, either on a worldwide or individual country basis. 

Research and Development (&#8220;R&#38;D&#8221;) 

The Company operates R&#38;D facilities in Shanghai, China (China Division); Plano, Texas (KFC and Pizza Hut Divisions); Irvine, California (Taco Bell Division); Louisville, Kentucky (KFC U.S.) and several other locations outside the U.S. In addition to Company R&#38;D, we regularly also engage independent suppliers to conduct research and development activities for the benefit of the YUM system. The Company expensed $29 million, $30 million and $31 million in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively, for R&#38;D activities. 

Environmental Matters 

The Company is not aware of any federal, state or local environmental laws or regulations that will materially affect its earnings or competitive position, or result in material capital expenditures. However, the Company cannot predict the effect on its operations of possible future environmental legislation or regulations. During 2015 , there were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities and no such material expenditures are anticipated. 

Government Regulation 

U.S. Operations. &#32; &#160; The Company and its U.S. operations are subject to various federal, state and local laws affecting its business, including laws and regulations concerning information security, labor and employment, health, marketing, food labeling, sanitation and safety. Each of the Concepts&#8217; restaurants in the U.S. must comply with licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities, which include health, sanitation, safety, fire and zoning agencies in the state and/or municipality in which the restaurant is located. In addition, each Concept must comply with various state and federal laws that regulate the franchisor/franchisee relationship. To date, the Company has not been materially adversely affected by such licensing and regulation or by any difficulty, delay or failure to obtain required licenses or approvals. 

International Operations . The Company&#8217;s restaurants outside the U.S. are subject to national and local laws and regulations which are similar to those affecting U.S. restaurants. The restaurants outside the U.S. are also subject to tariffs and regulations on imported commodities and equipment and laws regulating foreign investment, as well as anti-bribery and corruption laws. 

See Item 1A "Risk Factors" for a discussion of risks relating to federal, state, local and international regulation of our business. 

Employees 

As of year end 2015 , the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 505,000 persons. The Company believes that it provides working conditions and compensation that compare favorably with those of its principal competitors. The majority of employees are paid on an hourly basis. Some employees are subject to labor council relationships that vary due to the diverse cultures in which the Company operates. The Company and its Concepts consider their employee relations to be good. 

Financial Information about Geographic Areas 

Financial information about our significant geographic areas is incorporated herein by reference from the related Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. 

Available Information 

The Company makes available through the Investor Relations section of its internet website at http://yum.com &#32;its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") at http://www.sec.gov . These reports may also be obtained by visiting the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1 (800) SEC-0330. 

Our Corporate Governance Principles and our Code of Conduct are also located within the Investor Relations section of the Company's website. The reference to the Company&#8217;s website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website and should not be considered part of this document. These documents, as well as our SEC filings, are available in print free of charge to any shareholder who requests a copy from our Investor Relations Department. 

